INTERNATIONAL POWERLIFTING FEDERATION


         ANTI-DOPING RULES




          Effective 27 June 2023
                                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................................................................. 3
ARTICLE 1               DEFINITION OF DOPING ....................................................................................................... 5
ARTICLE 2               ANTI-DOPING RULE VIOLATIONS ...................................................................................... 5
ARTICLE 3               PROOF OF DOPING ............................................................................................................... 9
ARTICLE 4               THE PROHIBITED LIST ........................................................................................................ 11
ARTICLE 5               TESTING AND INVESTIGATIONS ...................................................................................... 16
ARTICLE 6               ANALYSIS OF SAMPLES .................................................................................................... 20
ARTICLE 7               RESULTS MANAGEMENT: RESPONSIBILITY, INITIAL REVIEW, NOTICE AND
                        PROVISIONAL SUSPENSIONS .......................................................................................... 22
ARTICLE 8               RESULTS MANAGEMENT: RIGHT TO A FAIR HEARING AND NOTICE OF HEARING
                        DECISION ............................................................................................................................... 26
ARTICLE 9               AUTOMATIC DISQUALIFICATION OF INDIVIDUAL RESULTS ..................................... 29
ARTICLE 10              SANCTIONS ON INDIVIDUALS ........................................................................................... 29
ARTICLE 11              CONSEQUENCES TO TEAMS ............................................................................................ 41
ARTICLE 12              SANCTIONS BY IPF AGAINST OTHER SPORTING BODIES ......................................... 42
ARTICLE 13              RESULTS MANAGEMENT: APPEALS ............................................................................. 43
ARTICLE 14              CONFIDENTIALITY AND REPORTING .............................................................................. 47
ARTICLE 15              IMPLEMENTATION OF DECISIONS ................................................................................... 51
ARTICLE 16              STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS ................................................................................................ 53
ARTICLE 17              EDUCATION .......................................................................................................................... 53
ARTICLE 18              ADDITIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF NATIONAL FEDERATIONS ....... 53
ARTICLE 19              ADDITIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF IPF ................................................. 54
ARTICLE 20              ADDITIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ATHLETES ................................... 55
ARTICLE 21              ADDITIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ATHLETE SUPPORT
                        PERSONNEL ......................................................................................................................... 55
ARTICLE 22              ADDITIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OTHER PERSONS SUBJECT TO
                        THESE ANTI-DOPING RULES ............................................................................................ 56
ARTICLE 23              INTERPRETATION OF THE CODE ..................................................................................... 56
ARTICLE 24              FINAL PROVISIONS ............................................................................................................. 57
APPENDIX 1              DEFINITIONS ......................................................................................................................... 59




IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules                                                                                                             Page 2 of 66
IPF ANTI-DOPING RULES

INTRODUCTION

Preface

These Anti-Doping Rules are adopted and implemented in accordance with IPF's responsibilities under the
Code, and in furtherance of IPF's continuing efforts to eradicate doping in sport.

These Anti-Doping Rules are sport rules governing the conditions under which sport is played. Aimed at
enforcing anti-doping rules in a global and harmonized manner, they are distinct in nature from criminal and
civil laws. They are not intended to be subject to or limited by any national requirements and legal standards
applicable to criminal or civil proceedings, although they are intended to be applied in a manner which
respects the principles of proportionality and human rights. When reviewing the facts and the law of a given
case, all courts, arbitral tribunals and other adjudicating bodies should be aware of and respect the distinct
nature of these Anti-Doping Rules, which implement the Code, and the fact that these rules represent the
consensus of a broad spectrum of stakeholders around the world as to what is necessary to protect and
ensure fair sport.

As provided in the Code, IPF shall be responsible for conducting all aspects of Doping Control. Any aspect
of Doping Control or anti-doping Education may be delegated by IPF to a Delegated Third Party, however,
IPF shall require the Delegated Third Party to perform such aspects in compliance with the Code,
International Standards, and these Anti-Doping Rules. IPF may delegate the relevant part of the Results
Management to the CAS Anti-Doping Division.

When IPF has delegated its responsibilities to implement part or all of Doping Control to the ITA or to other
Delegated Third Party, any reference to IPF in these Rules should be intended as a reference to the ITA or
to the other Delegated Third Party, where applicable and within the context of the aforementioned
delegation. IPF shall always remain fully responsible for ensuring that any delegated aspects are performed
in compliance with the Code.

Italicized terms used in these Anti-Doping Rules are defined in Appendix 1.

Unless otherwise specified, references to Articles are references to Articles of these Anti-Doping Rules.

Fundamental Rationale for the Code and IPF's Anti-Doping Rules

Anti-doping programs are founded on the intrinsic value of sport. This intrinsic value is often referred to as
"the spirit of sport": the ethical pursuit of human excellence through the dedicated perfection of each
Athlete’s natural talents.

Anti-doping programs seek to protect the health of Athletes and to provide the opportunity for Athletes to
pursue human excellence without the Use of Prohibited Substances and Methods.

Anti-doping programs seek to maintain the integrity of sport in terms of respect for rules, other competitors,
fair competition, a level playing field, and the value of clean sport to the world.

The spirit of sport is the celebration of the human spirit, body and mind. It is the essence of Olympism and
is reflected in the values we find in and through sport, including:

    •   Health
    •   Ethics, fair play and honesty
    •   Athletes’ rights as set forth in the Code
    •   Excellence in performance

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                   Page 3 of 66
     •    Character and Education
     •    Fun and joy
     •    Teamwork
     •    Dedication and commitment
     •    Respect for rules and laws
     •    Respect for self and other Participants
     •    Courage
     •    Community and solidarity

The spirit of sport is expressed in how we play true.

Doping is fundamentally contrary to the spirit of sport.

Scope of these Anti-Doping Rules

These Anti-Doping Rules shall apply to:

     (a) IPF, including its board members, directors, officers, specified employees, and Delegated Third
         Parties and their employees, who are involved in any aspect of Doping Control;
     (b) each of its National Federations, including their board members, directors, officers, specified
         employees, and Delegated Third Parties and their employees, who are involved in any aspect of
         Doping Control;
     (c) the following Athletes, Athlete Support Personnel and other Persons:
               (i) all Athletes and Athlete Support Personnel who are members of IPF, or of any National
                   Federation, or of any member or affiliate organization of any National Federation (including
                   any clubs, teams, associations, or leagues);
               (ii) all Athletes and Athlete Support Personnel who participate in such capacity in Events,
                    Competitions and other activities organized, convened, authorized or recognized by IPF,
                    or any National Federation, or by any member or affiliate organization of any National
                    Federation (including any clubs, teams, associations, or leagues), wherever held;
               (iii) any other Athlete or Athlete Support Personnel or other Person who, by virtue of an
                     accreditation, a license or other contractual arrangement, or otherwise, is subject to the
                     authority of IPF, or of any National Federation, or of any member or affiliate organization
                     of any National Federation (including any clubs, teams, associations, or leagues), for
                     purposes of anti-doping; and
               (iv) Athletes who are not regular members of IPF or of one of its National Federations but who
                    want to be eligible to compete in a particular International Event.

Each of the abovementioned Persons is deemed, as a condition of his or her participation or involvement
in the sport, to have agreed to and be bound by these Anti-Doping Rules, and to have submitted to the
authority of IPF to enforce these Anti-Doping Rules, including any Consequences for the breach thereof,
and to the jurisdiction of the hearing panels specified in Article 8 and Article 13 to hear and determine cases
and appeals brought under these Anti-Doping Rules.1

1   [Comment: Where the Code requires a Person other than an Athlete or Athlete Support Person to be bound by the Code, such
    Person would of course not be subject to Sample collection or Testing, and would not be charged with an anti-doping rule violation
    under the Code for Use or Possession of a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method. Rather, such Person would only be subject
    to discipline for a violation of Code Articles 2.5 (Tampering), 2.7 (Trafficking), 2.8 (Administration), 2.9 (Complicity), 2.10
    (Prohibited Association) and 2.11 (Retaliation). Furthermore, such Person would be subject to the additional roles and
    responsibilities according to Code Article 21.3. Also, the obligation to require an employee to be bound by the Code is subject to
    applicable law.



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                       Page 4 of 66
Within the overall pool of Athletes set out above who are bound by and required to comply with these Anti-
Doping Rules, the following Athletes shall be considered to be International-Level Athletes for the purposes
of these Anti-Doping Rules, and, therefore, the specific provisions in these Anti-Doping Rules applicable to
International-Level Athletes (e.g., Testing, TUEs, whereabouts, and Results Management) shall apply to
such Athletes:

     •    Athletes who are in the IPF Registered Testing Pool, IPF Testing Pool or any other Testing pool
          established by IPF;
          and,
     •    All Athletes who are nominated to compete in the Junior or Open Category in the list of designated
          IPF Championships as published by the IPF on its website for a 12 month period starting from the
          date of nomination to a designated Championship for which the Athlete was nominated.

     The list of designated IPF Championships and additional information on what it means for an Athlete
     to be considered an International Level Athlete is available here : Lifter’s Platform - International
     Powerlifting Federation IPF.
ARTICLE 1            DEFINITION OF DOPING

Doping is defined as the occurrence of one or more of the anti-doping rule violations set forth in Article 2.1
through Article 2.11 of these Anti-Doping Rules.

ARTICLE 2            ANTI-DOPING RULE VIOLATIONS

The purpose of Article 2 is to specify the circumstances and conduct which constitute anti-doping rule
violations. Hearings in doping cases will proceed based on the assertion that one or more of these specific
rules have been violated.

Athletes or other Persons shall be responsible for knowing what constitutes an anti-doping rule violation
and the substances and methods which have been included on the Prohibited List.

The following constitute anti-doping rule violations:

          2.1        Presence of a Prohibited Substance or its Metabolites or Markers in an Athlete’s
                     Sample

                     2.1.1        It is the Athletes’ personal duty to ensure that no Prohibited Substance enters
                                  their bodies. Athletes are responsible for any Prohibited Substance or its
                                  Metabolites or Markers found to be present in their Samples. Accordingly, it is
                                  not necessary that intent, Fault, Negligence or knowing Use on the Athlete’s part
                                  be demonstrated in order to establish an anti-doping rule violation under Article
                                  2.1. 2




    IPF shall ensure that, as per Article 19 of these Anti-Doping Rules, any arrangements with their board members, directors, officers,
    and specified employees, as well as with the Delegated Third Parties and their employees – either employment, contractual or
    otherwise – have explicit provisions incorporated according to which such Persons are bound by, agree to comply with these Anti-
    Doping Rules, and agree on the IPF’s authority to solve the anti-doping cases.]
2   [Comment to Article 2.1.1: An anti-doping rule violation is committed under this Article without regard to an Athlete’s Fault. This
    rule has been referred to in various CAS decisions as “Strict Liability”. An Athlete’s Fault is taken into consideration in determining
    the Consequences of this anti-doping rule violation under Article 10. This principle has consistently been upheld by CAS.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                           Page 5 of 66
                     2.1.2        Sufficient proof of an anti-doping rule violation under Article 2.1 is established by
                                  any of the following: presence of a Prohibited Substance or its Metabolites or
                                  Markers in the Athlete’s A Sample where the Athlete waives analysis of the B
                                  Sample and the B Sample is not analyzed; or, where the Athlete’s B Sample is
                                  analyzed and the analysis of the Athlete’s B Sample confirms the presence of
                                  the Prohibited Substance or its Metabolites or Markers found in the Athlete’s A
                                  Sample; or where the Athlete’s A or B Sample is split into two (2) parts and the
                                  analysis of the confirmation part of the split Sample confirms the presence of the
                                  Prohibited Substance or its Metabolites or Markers found in the first part of the
                                  split Sample or the Athlete waives analysis of the confirmation part of the split
                                  Sample.3

                     2.1.3        Excepting those substances for which a Decision Limit is specifically identified
                                  in the Prohibited List or a Technical Document, the presence of any reported
                                  quantity of a Prohibited Substance or its Metabolites or Markers in an Athlete’s
                                  Sample shall constitute an anti-doping rule violation.

                     2.1.4        As an exception to the general rule of Article 2.1, the Prohibited List, International
                                  Standards or Technical Documents may establish special criteria for reporting or
                                  the evaluation of certain Prohibited Substances.

          2.2        Use or Attempted Use by an Athlete of a Prohibited Substance or a Prohibited
                     Method 4

                     2.2.1        It is the Athletes’ personal duty to ensure that no Prohibited Substance enters
                                  their bodies and that no Prohibited Method is Used. Accordingly, it is not
                                  necessary that intent, Fault, Negligence or knowing Use on the Athlete’s part be
                                  demonstrated in order to establish an anti-doping rule violation for Use of a
                                  Prohibited Substance or a Prohibited Method.

                     2.2.2        The success or failure of the Use or Attempted Use of a Prohibited Substance
                                  or Prohibited Method is not material. It is sufficient that the Prohibited Substance
                                  or Prohibited Method was Used or Attempted to be Used for an anti-doping rule
                                  violation to be committed.5


3   [Comment to Article 2.1.2: The Anti-Doping Organization with Results Management responsibility may, at its discretion, choose to
    have the B Sample analyzed even if the Athlete does not request the analysis of the B Sample.]

4   [Comment to Article 2.2: It has always been the case that Use or Attempted Use of a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method
    may be established by any reliable means. As noted in the Comment to Article 3.2, unlike the proof required to establish an anti-
    doping rule violation under Article 2.1, Use or Attempted Use may also be established by other reliable means such as admissions
    by the Athlete, witness statements, documentary evidence, conclusions drawn from longitudinal profiling, including data collected
    as part of the Athlete Biological Passport, or other analytical information which does not otherwise satisfy all the requirements to
    establish “Presence” of a Prohibited Substance under Article 2.1.

    For example, Use may be established based upon reliable analytical data from the analysis of an A Sample (without confirmation
    from an analysis of a B Sample) or from the analysis of a B Sample alone where the Anti-Doping Organization provides a
    satisfactory explanation for the lack of confirmation in the other Sample.]
5   [Comment to Article 2.2.2: Demonstrating the "Attempted Use" of a Prohibited Substance or a Prohibited Method requires proof
    of intent on the Athlete’s part. The fact that intent may be required to prove this particular anti-doping rule violation does not
    undermine the Strict Liability principle established for violations of Article 2.1 and violations of Article 2.2 in respect of Use of a
    Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method.

    An Athlete’s Use of a Prohibited Substance constitutes an anti-doping rule violation unless such substance is not prohibited Out-
    of-Competition and the Athlete’s Use takes place Out-of-Competition. (However, the presence of a Prohibited Substance or its
    Metabolites or Markers in a Sample collected In-Competition is a violation of Article 2.1 regardless of when that substance might
    have been administered.)]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                           Page 6 of 66
          2.3        Evading, Refusing or Failing to Submit to Sample Collection by an Athlete

          Evading Sample collection; or refusing or failing to submit to Sample collection without compelling
          justification after notification by a duly authorized Person.6

          2.4        Whereabouts Failures by an Athlete

          Any combination of three (3) missed tests and/or filing failures, as defined in the International Standard
          for Results Management, within a twelve (12) month period by an Athlete in a Registered Testing Pool.

          2.5        Tampering or Attempted Tampering with any Part of Doping Control by an Athlete
                     or Other Person

          2.6        Possession of a Prohibited Substance or a Prohibited Method by an Athlete or
                     Athlete Support Person

                     2.6.1      Possession by an Athlete In-Competition of any Prohibited Substance or any
                                Prohibited Method, or Possession by an Athlete Out-of-Competition of any
                                Prohibited Substance or any Prohibited Method which is prohibited Out-of-
                                Competition unless the Athlete establishes that the Possession is consistent with
                                a Therapeutic Use Exemption (“TUE”) granted in accordance with Article 4.4 or
                                other acceptable justification.

                     2.6.2      Possession by an Athlete Support Person In-Competition of any Prohibited
                                Substance or any Prohibited Method, or Possession by an Athlete Support Person
                                Out-of-Competition of any Prohibited Substance or any Prohibited Method which
                                is prohibited Out-of-Competition in connection with an Athlete, Competition or
                                training, unless the Athlete Support Person establishes that the Possession is
                                consistent with a TUE granted to an Athlete in accordance with Article 4.4 or other
                                acceptable justification. 7

          2.7        Trafficking or Attempted Trafficking in any Prohibited Substance or Prohibited
                     Method by an Athlete or Other Person

          2.8        Administration or Attempted Administration by an Athlete or Other Person to any
                     Athlete In-Competition of any Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method, or
                     Administration or Attempted Administration to any Athlete Out-of-Competition of
                     any Prohibited Substance or any Prohibited Method that is Prohibited Out-of-
                     Competition

          2.9        Complicity or Attempted Complicity by an Athlete or Other Person

6   [Comment to Article 2.3: Error! Main Document Only.For example, it would be an anti-doping rule violation of “evading Sample
    collection” if it were established that an Athlete was deliberately avoiding a Doping Control official to evade notification or Testing.
    A violation of “failing to submit to Sample collection” may be based on either intentional or negligent conduct of the Athlete, while
    “evading” or “refusing” Sample collection contemplates intentional conduct by the Athlete.]

7   [Comment to Articles 2.6.1 and 2.6.2: Acceptable justification would not include, for example, buying or Possessing a Prohibited
    Substance for purposes of giving it to a friend or relative, except under justifiable medical circumstances where that Person had a
    physician’s prescription, e.g., buying Insulin for a diabetic child.]

    [Comment to Article 2.6.1 and 2.6.2: Acceptable justification may include, for example, (a) an Athlete or a team doctor carrying
    Prohibited Substances or Prohibited Methods for dealing with acute and emergency situations (e.g., an epinephrine auto-injector),
    or (b) an Athlete Possessing a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method for therapeutic reasons shortly prior to applying for and
    receiving a determination on a TUE.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                            Page 7 of 66
          Assisting, encouraging, aiding, abetting, conspiring, covering up or any other type of intentional
          complicity or Attempted complicity involving an anti-doping rule violation, Attempted anti-doping
          rule violation or violation of Article 10.14.1 by another Person.8

          2.10       Prohibited Association by an Athlete or Other Person

                     2.10.1       Association by an Athlete or other Person subject to the authority of an Anti-Doping
                                  Organization in a professional or sport-related capacity with any Athlete Support
                                  Person who:

                                  2.10.1.1     If subject to the authority of an Anti-Doping Organization, is serving a
                                               period of Ineligibility; or

                                  2.10.1.2     If not subject to the authority of an Anti-Doping Organization and where
                                               Ineligibility has not been addressed in a Results Management process
                                               pursuant to the Code, has been convicted or found in a criminal,
                                               disciplinary or professional proceeding to have engaged in conduct
                                               which would have constituted a violation of anti-doping rules if Code-
                                               compliant rules had been applicable to such Person. The disqualifying
                                               status of such Person shall be in force for the longer of six (6) years from
                                               the criminal, professional or disciplinary decision or the duration of the
                                               criminal, disciplinary or professional sanction imposed; or

                                  2.10.1.3     Is serving as a front or intermediary for an individual described in Article
                                               2.10.1.1 or 2.10.1.2.

                     2.10.2       To establish a violation of Article 2.10, an Anti-Doping Organization must establish
                                  that the Athlete or other Person knew of the Athlete Support Person’s disqualifying
                                  status.

                                  The burden shall be on the Athlete or other Person to establish that any association
                                  with an Athlete Support Person described in Article 2.10.1.1 or 2.10.1.2 is not in a
                                  professional or sport-related capacity and/or that such association could not have
                                  been reasonably avoided.

                                  Anti-Doping Organizations that are aware of Athlete Support Personnel who meet
                                  the criteria described in Article 2.10.1.1, 2.10.1.2, or 2.10.1.3 shall submit that
                                  information to WADA.9

          2.11       Acts by an Athlete or Other Person to Discourage or Retaliate Against Reporting to
                     Authorities


8   [Comment to Article 2.9: Complicity or Attempted Complicity may include either physical or psychological assistance.]
9   [Comment to Article 2.10: Athletes and other Persons must not work with coaches, trainers, physicians or other Athlete Support
    Personnel who are Ineligible on account of an anti-doping rule violation or who have been criminally convicted or professionally
    disciplined in relation to doping. This also prohibits association with any other Athlete who is acting as a coach or Athlete Support
    Person while serving a period of Ineligibility. Some examples of the types of association which are prohibited include: obtaining
    training, strategy, technique, nutrition or medical advice; obtaining therapy, treatment or prescriptions; providing any bodily
    products for analysis; or allowing the Athlete Support Person to serve as an agent or representative. Prohibited association need
    not involve any form of compensation.

    While Article 2.10 does not require the Anti-Doping Organization to notify the Athlete or other Person about the Athlete Support
    Person’s disqualifying status, such notice, if provided, would be important evidence to establish that the Athlete or other Person
    knew about the disqualifying status of the Athlete Support Person.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                         Page 8 of 66
           Where such conduct does not otherwise constitute a violation of Article 2.5:

                      2.11.1       Any act which threatens or seeks to intimidate another Person with the intent of
                                   discouraging the Person from the good-faith reporting of information that relates
                                   to an alleged anti-doping rule violation or alleged non-compliance with the Code
                                   to WADA, an Anti-Doping Organization, law enforcement, regulatory or
                                   professional disciplinary body, hearing body or Person conducting an
                                   investigation for WADA or an Anti-Doping Organization.

                      2.11.2       Retaliation against a Person who, in good faith, has provided evidence or
                                   information that relates to an alleged anti-doping rule violation or alleged non-
                                   compliance with the Code to WADA, an Anti-Doping Organization, law
                                   enforcement, regulatory or professional disciplinary body, hearing body or
                                   Person conducting an investigation for WADA or an Anti-Doping Organization.

                                   For purposes of Article 2.11, retaliation, threatening and intimidation include an
                                   act taken against such Person either because the act lacks a good faith basis or
                                   is a disproportionate response.10

ARTICLE 3             PROOF OF DOPING

           3.1        Burdens and Standards of Proof

           IPF shall have the burden of establishing that an anti-doping rule violation has occurred. The
           standard of proof shall be whether IPF has established an anti-doping rule violation to the
           comfortable satisfaction of the hearing panel bearing in mind the seriousness of the allegation
           which is made. This standard of proof in all cases is greater than a mere balance of probability but
           less than proof beyond a reasonable doubt. Where these Anti-Doping Rules place the burden of
           proof upon the Athlete or other Person alleged to have committed an anti-doping rule violation to
           rebut a presumption or establish specified facts or circumstances, except as provided in Articles
           3.2.2 and 3.2.3, the standard of proof shall be by a balance of probability. 11

           3.2        Methods of Establishing Facts and Presumptions

           Facts related to anti-doping rule violations may be established by any reliable means, including
           admissions.12 The following rules of proof shall be applicable in doping cases:

                      3.2.1        Analytical methods or Decision Limits approved by WADA after consultation
                                   within the relevant scientific community or which have been the subject of peer

10   [Comment to Article 2.11.2: This Article is intended to protect Persons who make good faith reports and does not protect Persons
     who knowingly make false reports.]

     [Comment to Article 2.11.2: Retaliation would include, for example, actions that threaten the physical or mental well-being or
     economic interests of the reporting Persons, their families or associates. Retaliation would not include an Anti-Doping Organization
     asserting in good faith an anti-doping rule violation against the reporting Person. For purposes of Article 2.11, a report is not made
     in good faith where the Person making the report knows the report to be false.]

11   [Comment to Article 3.1: This standard of proof required to be met by IPF is comparable to the standard which is applied in most
     countries to cases involving professional misconduct.]

12   [Comment to Article 3.2: For example, IPF may establish an anti-doping rule violation under Article 2.2 based on the Athlete’s
     admissions, the credible testimony of third Persons, reliable documentary evidence, reliable analytical data from either an A or B
     Sample as provided in the Comments to Article 2.2, or conclusions drawn from the profile of a series of the Athlete’s blood or urine
     Samples, such as data from the Athlete Biological Passport.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                           Page 9 of 66
                                  review are presumed to be scientifically valid. Any Athlete or other Person
                                  seeking to challenge whether the conditions for such presumption have been
                                  met or to rebut this presumption of scientific validity shall, as a condition
                                  precedent to any such challenge, first notify WADA of the challenge and the
                                  basis of the challenge. The initial hearing body, appellate body or CAS, on its
                                  own initiative, may also inform WADA of any such challenge. Within ten (10)
                                  days of WADA’s receipt of such notice and the case file related to such
                                  challenge, WADA shall also have the right to intervene as a party, appear as
                                  amicus curiae or otherwise provide evidence in such proceeding. In cases before
                                  CAS, at WADA’s request, the CAS panel shall appoint an appropriate scientific
                                  expert to assist the panel in its evaluation of the challenge. 13

                     3.2.2        WADA-accredited laboratories, and other laboratories approved by WADA, are
                                  presumed to have conducted Sample analysis and custodial procedures in
                                  accordance with the International Standard for Laboratories. The Athlete or other
                                  Person may rebut this presumption by establishing that a departure from the
                                  International Standard for Laboratories occurred which could reasonably have
                                  caused the Adverse Analytical Finding.

                                  If the Athlete or other Person rebuts the preceding presumption by showing that
                                  a departure from the International Standard for Laboratories occurred which
                                  could reasonably have caused the Adverse Analytical Finding, then IPF shall
                                  have the burden to establish that such departure did not cause the Adverse
                                  Analytical Finding.14

                     3.2.3        Departures from any other International Standard or other anti-doping rule or
                                  policy set forth in the Code or these Anti-Doping Rules shall not invalidate
                                  analytical results or other evidence of an anti-doping rule violation, and shall not
                                  constitute a defense to an anti-doping rule violation;15 provided, however, if the
                                  Athlete or other Person establishes that a departure from one of the specific
                                  International Standard provisions listed below could reasonably have caused an
                                  anti-doping rule violation based on an Adverse Analytical Finding or
                                  whereabouts failure, then IPF shall have the burden to establish that such
                                  departure did not cause the Adverse Analytical Finding or the whereabouts
                                  failure:

13   [Comment to Article 3.2.1: For certain Prohibited Substances, WADA may instruct WADA-accredited laboratories not to report
     Samples as an Adverse Analytical Finding if the estimated concentration of the Prohibited Substance or its Metabolites or Markers
     is below a Minimum Reporting Level. WADA’s decision in determining that Minimum Reporting Level or in determining which
     Prohibited Substances should be subject to Minimum Reporting Levels shall not be subject to challenge. Further, the laboratory’s
     estimated concentration of such Prohibited Substance in a Sample may only be an estimate. In no event shall the possibility that
     the exact concentration of the Prohibited Substance in the Sample may be below the Minimum Reporting Level constitute a
     defense to an anti-doping rule violation based on the presence of that Prohibited Substance in the Sample.]

14   [Comment to Article 3.2.2: Error! Main Document Only.The burden is on the Athlete or other Person to establish, by a balance
     of probability, a departure from the International Standard for Laboratories that could reasonably have caused the Adverse
     Analytical Finding. Thus, once the Athlete or other Person establishes the departure by a balance of probability, the Athlete or
     other Person’s burden on causation is the somewhat lower standard of proof – “could reasonably have caused.” If the Athlete or
     other Person satisfies these standards, the burden shifts to IPF to prove to the comfortable satisfaction of the hearing panel that
     the departure did not cause the Adverse Analytical Finding.]

15   [Comment to Article 3.2.3: Departures from an International Standard or other rule unrelated to Sample collection or handling,
     Adverse Passport Finding, or Athlete notification relating to whereabouts failure or B Sample opening – e.g., the International
     Standards for Education, Data Privacy or TUEs – may result in compliance proceedings by WADA but are not a defense in an
     anti-doping rule violation proceeding and are not relevant on the issue of whether the Athlete committed an anti-doping rule
     violation. Similarly, IPF’s violation of the document referenced in Article 20.7.7 of the Code shall not constitute a defense to an
     anti-doping rule violation.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                        Page 10 of 66
                                          (i) a departure from the International Standard for Testing and
                                              Investigations related to Sample collection or Sample handling which
                                              could reasonably have caused an anti-doping rule violation based on
                                              an Adverse Analytical Finding, in which case IPF shall have the
                                              burden to establish that such departure did not cause the Adverse
                                              Analytical Finding;

                                          (ii) a departure from the International Standard for Results Management
                                               or International Standard for Testing and Investigations related to an
                                               Adverse Passport Finding which could reasonably have caused an
                                               anti-doping rule violation, in which case IPF shall have the burden to
                                               establish that such departure did not cause the anti-doping rule
                                               violation;

                                          (iii) a departure from the International Standard for Results Management
                                                related to the requirement to provide notice to the Athlete of the B
                                                Sample opening which could reasonably have caused an anti-doping
                                                rule violation based on an Adverse Analytical Finding, in which case
                                                IPF shall have the burden to establish that such departure did not
                                                cause the Adverse Analytical Finding;16

                                          (iv) a departure from the International Standard for Results Management
                                               related to Athlete notification which could reasonably have caused an
                                               anti-doping rule violation based on a whereabouts failure, in which
                                               case IPF shall have the burden to establish that such departure did
                                               not cause the whereabouts failure.

                     3.2.4        The facts established by a decision of a court or professional disciplinary tribunal
                                  of competent jurisdiction which is not the subject of a pending appeal shall be
                                  irrebuttable evidence against the Athlete or other Person to whom the decision
                                  pertained of those facts unless the Athlete or other Person establishes that the
                                  decision violated principles of natural justice.

                     3.2.5        The hearing panel in a hearing on an anti-doping rule violation may draw an
                                  inference adverse to the Athlete or other Person who is asserted to have
                                  committed an anti-doping rule violation based on the Athlete’s or other Person’s
                                  refusal, after a request made in a reasonable time in advance of the hearing, to
                                  appear at the hearing (either in person or telephonically as directed by the
                                  hearing panel) and to answer questions from the hearing panel or IPF.

ARTICLE 4            THE PROHIBITED LIST

           4.1       Incorporation of the Prohibited List

           These Anti-Doping Rules incorporate the Prohibited List, which is published and revised by WADA
           as described in Article 4.1 of the Code.




16   [Comment to Article 3.2.3 (iii): IPF would meet its burden to establish that such departure did not cause the Adverse Analytical
     Finding by showing that, for example, the B Sample opening and analysis were observed by an independent witness and no
     irregularities were observed.]



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                     Page 11 of 66
           Unless provided otherwise in the Prohibited List or a revision, the Prohibited List and revisions shall
           go into effect under these Anti-Doping Rules three (3) months after publication by WADA, without
           requiring any further action by IPF or its National Federations. All Athletes and other Persons shall
           be bound by the Prohibited List, and any revisions thereto, from the date they go into effect, without
           further formality. It is the responsibility of all Athletes and other Persons to familiarize themselves
           with the most up-to-date version of the Prohibited List and all revisions thereto.

           IPF shall provide its National Federations with the most recent version of the Prohibited List. Each
           National Federation shall in turn ensure that its members, and the constituents of its members, are
           also provided with the most recent version of the Prohibited List.17

           4.2       Prohibited Substances and Prohibited Methods Identified on the Prohibited List

                     4.2.1        Prohibited Substances and Prohibited Methods

                     The Prohibited List shall identify those Prohibited Substances and Prohibited Methods
                     which are prohibited as doping at all times (both In-Competition and Out-of-Competition)
                     because of their potential to enhance performance in future Competitions or their masking
                     potential, and those substances and methods which are prohibited In-Competition only.
                     The Prohibited List may be expanded by WADA for a particular sport. Prohibited
                     Substances and Prohibited Methods may be included in the Prohibited List by general
                     category (e.g., anabolic agents) or by specific reference to a particular substance or
                     method.18

                     4.2.2        Specified Substances or Specified Methods

                     For purposes of the application of Article 10, all Prohibited Substances shall be Specified
                     Substances except as identified on the Prohibited List. No Prohibited Method shall be a
                     Specified Method unless it is specifically identified as a Specified Method on the Prohibited
                     List.19

                     4.2.3        Substances of Abuse

                     For purposes of applying Article 10, Substances of Abuse shall include those Prohibited
                     Substances which are specifically identified as Substances of Abuse on the Prohibited List
                     because they are frequently abused in society outside of the context of sport.

           4.3       WADA’s Determination of the Prohibited List

           WADA’s determination of the Prohibited Substances and Prohibited Methods that will be included
           on the Prohibited List, the classification of substances into categories on the Prohibited List, the
           classification of a substance as prohibited at all times or In-Competition only, the classification of a


17   [Comment to Article 4.1: The current Prohibited List is available on WADA's website at https://www.wada-ama.org. The Prohibited
     List will be revised and published on an expedited basis whenever the need arises. However, for the sake of predictability, a new
     Prohibited List will be published every year whether or not changes have been made.]

18   [Comment to Article 4.2.1: Out-of-Competition Use of a substance which is only prohibited In-Competition is not an anti-doping
     rule violation unless an Adverse Analytical Finding for the substance or its Metabolites or Markers is reported for a Sample
     collected In-Competition.]

19   [Comment to Article 4.2.2: The Specified Substances and Methods identified in Article 4.2.2 should not in any way be considered
     less important or less dangerous than other doping substances or methods. Rather, they are simply substances and methods
     which are more likely to have been consumed or used by an Athlete for a purpose other than the enhancement of sport
     performance.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                      Page 12 of 66
           substance or method as a Specified Substance, Specified Method or Substance of Abuse is final
           and shall not be subject to any challenge by an Athlete or other Person including, but not limited
           to, any challenge based on an argument that the substance or method was not a masking agent or
           did not have the potential to enhance performance, represent a health risk or violate the spirit of
           sport.

           4.4       Therapeutic Use Exemptions (“TUEs”)

                     4.4.1         The presence of a Prohibited Substance or its Metabolites or Markers, and/or
                                   the Use or Attempted Use, Possession or Administration or Attempted
                                   Administration of a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method, shall not be
                                   considered an anti-doping rule violation if it is consistent with the provisions of a
                                   TUE granted in accordance with the International Standard for Therapeutic Use
                                   Exemptions.

                     4.4.2         TUE Applications

                                   4.4.2.1      Athletes who are not International-Level Athletes shall apply to their
                                                National Anti-Doping Organization for a TUE. If the National Anti-
                                                Doping Organization denies the application, the Athlete may appeal
                                                exclusively to the national-level appeal body described in Article
                                                13.2.2.


                                   4.4.2.2      Athletes who are International-Level Athletes shall apply to IPF for
                                                their TUEs.

                     4.4.3         TUE Recognition20

                                   4.4.3.1      Where the Athlete already has a TUE granted by their National Anti-
                                                Doping Organization pursuant to Article 4.4 of the Code for the
                                                substance or method in question and provided that such TUE decision
                                                has been reported in accordance with Article 5.5 of the International
                                                Standard for Therapeutic Use Exemptions, IPF will recognize it for
                                                purposes of international-level Competition.

                                   4.4.3.2      If IPF chooses to test an Athlete who is not an International-Level
                                                Athlete, IPF must recognize a TUE granted to that Athlete by their
                                                National Anti-Doping Organization unless the Athlete is required to
                                                apply for recognition of the TUE pursuant to Articles 5.8 and 7.0 of the
                                                International Standard for Therapeutic Use Exemptions.


                     4.4.4         TUE Application Process 21


20   [Comment to Article 4.4.3: If IPF refuses to recognize a TUE granted by a National Anti-Doping Organization only because medical
     records or other information are missing that are needed to demonstrate satisfaction with the criteria in the International Standard
     for Therapeutic Use Exemptions, the matter should not be referred to WADA. Instead, the file should be completed and re-
     submitted to IPF

     [Comment to Article 4.4.3: IPF may agree with a National Anti-Doping Organization that the National Anti-Doping Organization will
     consider TUE applications on behalf of IPF.]
21   [Comment to Article 4.4.6: The submission of falsified documents to a TUEC or IPF offering or accepting a bribe to a Person to
     perform or fail to perform an act, procuring false testimony from any witness, or committing any other fraudulent act or any other



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                         Page 13 of 66
                                 4.4.4.1      If the Athlete does not already have a TUE granted by their National
                                              Anti-Doping Organization for the substance or method in question, the
                                              Athlete must apply directly to IPF.

                                 4.4.4.2      An application to IPF for grant or recognition of a TUE must be made
                                              as soon as possible, save where Articles 4.1 or 4.3 of the International
                                              Standard for Therapeutic Use Exemptions apply. The application shall
                                              be made in accordance with Article 6 of the International Standard for
                                              Therapeutic Use Exemptions as posted on IPF’s website.

                                 4.4.4.3      IPF shall establish a Therapeutic Use Exemption Committee (“TUEC”)
                                              to consider applications for the grant or recognition of TUEs. in
                                              accordance with Article 4.4.4.3(a)-(d) below:

                                 (a)          The TUEC shall consist of a minimum of five (5) members with
                                              experience in the care and treatment of Athletes and sound
                                              knowledge of clinical, sports and exercise medicine. Each appointed
                                              member should serve a term of four (4) years, which is renewable for
                                              a maximum of three terms.

                                 (b)          Before serving as a member of the TUEC, each member must sign a
                                              conflict of interest and confidentiality declaration. The appointed
                                              members shall not be employees of IPF.

                                 (c)          When an application to IPF for the grant or recognition of a TUE is
                                              made, the Chair of the TUEC or the IPF shall promptly appoint three
                                              (3) members (which may include the Chair) to consider the application.

                                 (d)          Before considering a TUE application, each member shall disclose
                                              any circumstances likely to affect their impartiality with respect to the
                                              Athlete making the application. If a member is unwilling or unable to
                                              assess the Athlete’s TUE application, for any reason, the Chair or the
                                              IPF shall appoint a replacement from the pool of members appointed
                                              under point (a) above. The Chair cannot serve as a member of the
                                              TUEC if there are any circumstances which are likely to affect the
                                              impartiality of the TUE decision.

                                 4.4.4.4      The TUEC shall promptly evaluate and decide upon the application in
                                              accordance with the relevant provisions of the International Standard
                                              for Therapeutic Use Exemptions and usually (i.e., unless exceptional
                                              circumstances apply) within no more than twenty-one (21) days of
                                              receipt of a complete application. Where the application is made in a
                                              reasonable time prior to an Event, the TUEC must use its best
                                              endeavors to issue its decision before the start of the Event.

                                 4.4.4.5      The TUEC decision shall be the final decision of IPF and may be
                                              appealed in accordance with Article 4.4.7. IPF TUEC decision shall be


   similar intentional interference or Attempted interference with any aspect of the TUE process shall result in a charge of Tampering
   or Attempted Tampering under Article 2.5.

   An Athlete should not assume that their application for the grant or recognition of a TUE (or for renewal of a TUE) will be granted.
   Any Use or Possession or Administration of a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method before an application has been granted
   is entirely at the Athlete’s own risk.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                       Page 14 of 66
                                    notified in writing to the Athlete, and to WADA and other Anti-Doping
                                    Organizations in accordance with the International Standard for
                                    Therapeutic Use Exemptions. It shall also promptly be reported into
                                    ADAMS.

                          4.4.4.6   If IPF (or the National Anti-Doping Organization, where it has agreed
                                    to consider the application on behalf of IPF) denies the Athlete’s
                                    application, it must notify the Athlete promptly, with reasons. If IPF
                                    grants the Athlete’s application, it must notify not only the Athlete but
                                    also their National Anti-Doping Organization. If the National Anti-
                                    Doping Organization considers that the TUE granted by IPF does not
                                    meet the criteria set out in the International Standard for Therapeutic
                                    Use Exemptions, it has twenty-one (21) days from such notification to
                                    refer the matter to WADA for review in accordance with Article 4.4.7.

                                    If the National Anti-Doping Organization refers the matter to WADA for
                                    review, the TUE granted by IPF remains valid for international-level
                                    Competition and Out-of-Competition Testing (but is not valid for
                                    national-level Competition) pending WADA’s decision. If the National
                                    Anti-Doping Organization does not refer the matter to WADA for
                                    review, the TUE granted by IPF becomes valid for national-level
                                    Competition as well when the twenty-one (21) day review deadline
                                    expires.

                4.4.5     Retroactive TUE Applications

                If IPF chooses to collect a Sample from an Athlete who is not an International-Level Athlete
                or a National-Level Athlete, and that Athlete is Using a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited
                Method for therapeutic reasons, IPF must permit that Athlete to apply for a retroactive TUE.

                4.4.6     Expiration, Withdrawal or Reversal of a TUE

                          4.4.6.1   A TUE granted pursuant to these Anti-Doping Rules: (a) shall expire
                                    automatically at the end of any term for which it was granted, without
                                    the need for any further notice or other formality; (b) will be withdrawn
                                    if the Athlete does not promptly comply with any requirements or
                                    conditions imposed by the TUEC upon grant of the TUE; (c) may be
                                    withdrawn by the TUEC if it is subsequently determined that the
                                    criteria for grant of a TUE are not in fact met; or (d) may be reversed
                                    on review by WADA or on appeal.

                          4.4.6.2   In such event, the Athlete shall not be subject to any Consequences
                                    based on their Use or Possession or Administration of the Prohibited
                                    Substance or Prohibited Method in question in accordance with the
                                    TUE prior to the effective date of expiry, withdrawal, or reversal of the
                                    TUE. The review pursuant to Article 5.1.1.1 of the International
                                    Standard for Results Management of an Adverse Analytical Finding,
                                    reported shortly after the TUE expiry, withdrawal or reversal, shall
                                    include consideration of whether such finding is consistent with Use of
                                    the Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method prior to that date, in
                                    which event no anti-doping rule violation shall be asserted.

                4.4.7     Reviews and Appeals of TUE Decisions



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                 Page 15 of 66
                                  4.4.7.1      WADA must review IPF’s decision not to recognize a TUE granted by
                                               the National Anti-Doping Organization that is referred to WADA by the
                                               Athlete or the Athlete’s National Anti-Doping Organization. In addition,
                                               WADA must review IPF’s decision to grant a TUE that is referred to
                                               WADA by the Athlete’s National Anti-Doping Organization. WADA
                                               may review any other TUE decisions at any time, whether upon
                                               request by those affected or on its own initiative. If the TUE decision
                                               being reviewed meets the criteria set out in the International Standard
                                               for Therapeutic Use Exemptions, WADA will not interfere with it. If the
                                               TUE decision does not meet those criteria, WADA will reverse it.22

                                  4.4.7.2      Any TUE decision by IPF (or by a National Anti-Doping Organization
                                               where it has agreed to consider the application on behalf of IPF) that
                                               is not reviewed by WADA, or that is reviewed by WADA but is not
                                               reversed upon review, may be appealed by the Athlete and/or the
                                               Athlete’s National Anti-Doping Organization, exclusively to CAS.23

                                  4.4.7.3      A decision by WADA to reverse a TUE decision may be appealed by
                                               the Athlete, the National Anti-Doping Organization and/or IPF,
                                               exclusively to CAS.

                                  4.4.7.4      A failure to render a decision within a reasonable time on a properly
                                               submitted application for grant/recognition of a TUE or for review of a
                                               TUE decision shall be considered a denial of the application thus
                                               triggering the applicable rights of review/appeal.




ARTICLE 5            TESTING AND INVESTIGATIONS

           5.1       Purpose of Testing and Investigations24

                     5.1.1        Testing and investigations may be undertaken for any anti-doping purpose. They
                                  shall be conducted in conformity with the provisions of the International Standard
                                  for Testing and Investigations.

                     5.1.2        Testing shall be undertaken to obtain analytical evidence as to whether the
                                  Athlete has violated Article 2.1 (Presence of a Prohibited Substance or its
                                  Metabolites or Markers in an Athlete’s Sample) or Article 2.2 (Use or Attempted
                                  Use by an Athlete of a Prohibited Substance or a Prohibited Method).

           5.2       Authority to Test


22   [Comment to Article 4.4.7.1: WADA shall be entitled to charge a fee to cover the costs of: (a) any review it is required to conduct
     in accordance with Article 4.4.7; and (b) any review it chooses to conduct, where the decision being reviewed is reversed.]

23   [Comment to Article 4.4.7.2: In such cases, the decision being appealed is the IPF’s TUE decision, not WADA’s decision not to
     review the TUE decision or (having reviewed it) not to reverse the TUE decision. However, the time to appeal the TUE decision
     does not begin to run until the date that WADA communicates its decision. In any event, whether the decision has been reviewed
     by WADA or not, WADA shall be given notice of the appeal so that it may participate if it sees fit.]

24   [Comment to Article 5.1: Where Testing is conducted for anti-doping purposes, the analytical results and data may be used for
     other legitimate purposes under the Anti-Doping Organization’s rules. See, e.g., Comment to Article 23.2.2 of the Code.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                        Page 16 of 66
                     5.2.1         Subject to the limitations for Event Testing set out in Article 5.3, IPF shall have
                                   In-Competition and Out-of-Competition Testing authority over all Athletes
                                   specified in the Introduction to these Anti-Doping Rules (Section “Scope of these
                                   Anti-Doping Rules”).

                     5.2.2         IPF may require any Athlete over whom it has Testing authority (including any
                                   Athlete serving a period of Ineligibility) to provide a Sample at any time and at
                                   any place.25

                     5.2.3         WADA shall have In-Competition and Out-of-Competition Testing authority as
                                   set out in Article 20.7.10 of the Code.

                     5.2.4         If IPF delegates or contracts any part of Testing to a National Anti-Doping
                                   Organization directly or through a National Federation, that National Anti-Doping
                                   Organization may collect additional Samples or direct the laboratory to perform
                                   additional types of analysis at the National Anti-Doping Organization’s expense.
                                   If additional Samples are collected or additional types of analysis are performed,
                                   IPF shall be notified.

           5.3       Event Testing

                     5.3.1         Except as otherwise provided below, only a single organization shall have
                                   authority to conduct Testing at Event Venues during an Event Period. At
                                   International Events, IPF (or other international organization which is the ruling
                                   body for an Event) shall have authority to conduct Testing. At National Events,
                                   the National Anti-Doping Organization of that country shall have authority to
                                   conduct Testing. At the request of IPF (or other international organization which
                                   is the ruling body for an Event), any Testing during the Event Period outside of
                                   the Event Venues shall be coordinated with IPF (or the relevant ruling body of
                                   the Event).

                     5.3.2         If an Anti-Doping Organization, which would otherwise have Testing authority
                                   but is not responsible for initiating and directing Testing at an Event, desires to
                                   conduct Testing of Athletes at the Event Venues during the Event Period, the
                                   Anti-Doping Organization shall first confer with IPF (or other international
                                   organization which is the ruling body of the Event) to obtain permission to
                                   conduct and coordinate such Testing. If the Anti-Doping Organization is not
                                   satisfied with the response from IPF (or other international organization which is
                                   the ruling body of the Event), the Anti-Doping Organization may, in accordance
                                   with the procedures described in the International Standard for Testing and
                                   Investigations, ask WADA for permission to conduct Testing and to determine
                                   how to coordinate such Testing. WADA shall not grant approval for such Testing
                                   before consulting with and informing IPF (or other international organization
                                   which is the ruling body for the Event). WADA’s decision shall be final and not
                                   subject to appeal. Unless otherwise provided in the authorization to conduct
                                   Testing, such tests shall be considered Out-of-Competition tests. Results
                                   Management for any such test shall be the responsibility of the Anti-Doping



25   [Comment to Article 5.2.2: IPF may obtain additional authority to conduct Testing by means of bilateral or multilateral agreements
     with other Signatories. Unless the Athlete has identified a sixty (60) minute Testing window between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
     6:00 a.m., or has otherwise consented to Testing during that period, IPF will not test an Athlete during that period unless it has a
     serious and specific suspicion that the Athlete may be engaged in doping. A challenge to whether IPF had sufficient suspicion for
     Testing during this time period shall not be a defense to an anti-doping rule violation based on such test or attempted test.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                         Page 17 of 66
                                  Organization initiating the test unless provided otherwise in the rules of the ruling
                                  body of the Event.26


           5.4       Testing Requirements

                     5.4.1        IPF shall conduct test distribution planning and Testing as required by the
                                  International Standard for Testing and Investigations.

                     5.4.2        Where reasonably feasible, Testing shall be coordinated through ADAMS in order
                                  to maximize the effectiveness of the combined Testing effort and to avoid
                                  unnecessary repetitive Testing.

           5.5       Athlete Whereabouts Information

                     5.5.1        IPF may establish a Registered Testing Pool of those Athletes who are required
                                  to provide whereabouts information in the manner specified in the International
                                  Standard for Testing and Investigations and who shall be subject to
                                  Consequences for Article 2.4 violations as provided in Article 10.3.2. IPF shall
                                  coordinate with National Anti-Doping Organizations to identify such Athletes and
                                  to collect their whereabouts information.

                     5.5.2        IPF shall make available through ADAMS a list which identifies those Athletes
                                  included in its Registered Testing Pool by name. IPF shall regularly review and
                                  update as necessary its criteria for including Athletes in its Registered Testing
                                  Pool, and shall periodically (but not less than quarterly) review the list of Athletes
                                  in its Registered Testing Pool to ensure that each listed Athlete continues to
                                  meet the relevant criteria. Athletes shall be notified before they are included in
                                  the Registered Testing Pool and when they are removed from that pool. The
                                  notification shall contain the information set out in the International Standard for
                                  Testing and Investigations.

                     5.5.3        Where an Athlete is included in an international Registered Testing Pool by IPF
                                  and in a national Registered Testing Pool by their National Anti-Doping
                                  Organization, the National Anti-Doping Organization and IPF shall agree
                                  between themselves which of them shall accept that Athlete's whereabouts
                                  filings; in no case shall an Athlete be required to make whereabouts filings to
                                  more than one of them.

                     5.5.4        In accordance with the International Standard for Testing and Investigations,
                                  each Athlete in the Registered Testing Pool shall do the following: (a) advise IPF
                                  of his/her whereabouts on a quarterly basis; (b) update that information as
                                  necessary so that it remains accurate and complete at all times; and (c) make
                                  himself or herself available for Testing at such whereabouts.

                     5.5.5        For purposes of Article 2.4, an Athlete’s failure to comply with the requirements
                                  of the International Standard for Testing and Investigations shall be deemed a



26   [Comment to Article 5.3.2: Before giving approval to a National Anti-Doping Organization to initiate and conduct Testing at an
     International Event, WADA shall consult with the international organization which is the ruling body for the Event. Before giving
     approval to an International Federation to initiate and conduct Testing at a National Event, WADA shall consult with the National
     Anti-Doping Organization of the country where the Event takes place. The Anti-Doping Organization “initiating and directing
     Testing” may, if it chooses, enter into agreements with a Delegated Third Party to which it delegates responsibility for Sample
     collection or other aspects of the Doping Control process.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                      Page 18 of 66
                          filing failure or a missed test, as defined in Annex B of the International Standard
                          for Results Management, where the conditions set forth in Annex B are met.

                5.5.6     An Athlete in IPF’s Registered Testing Pool shall continue to be subject to the
                          obligation to comply with the whereabouts requirements set in the International
                          Standard for Testing and Investigations unless and until (a) the Athlete gives
                          written notice to IPF that he or she has retired or (b) IPF has informed him or her
                          that he or she no longer satisfies the criteria for inclusion in IPF's Registered
                          Testing Pool.

                5.5.7     Whereabouts information provided by an Athlete while in the Registered Testing
                          Pool will be accessible through ADAMS to WADA and to other Anti-Doping
                          Organizations having authority to test that Athlete as provided in Article 5.2.
                          Whereabouts information shall be maintained in strict confidence at all times; it
                          shall be used exclusively for purposes of planning, coordinating or conducting
                          Doping Control, providing information relevant to the Athlete Biological Passport
                          or other analytical results, to support an investigation into a potential anti-doping
                          rule violation, or to support proceedings alleging an anti-doping rule violation;
                          and shall be destroyed after it is no longer relevant for these purposes in
                          accordance with the International Standard for the Protection of Privacy and
                          Personal Information.

                5.5.8     IPF may, in accordance with the International Standard for Testing and
                          Investigations, collect whereabouts information from Athletes who are not
                          included within a Registered Testing Pool. If it chooses to do so, an Athlete’s
                          failure to provide requested whereabouts information on or before the date
                          required by IPF or the Athlete’s failure to provide accurate whereabouts
                          information shall result in IPF elevating the Athlete to IPF’s Registered Testing
                          Pool (if one is established).

                5.5.9     In accordance with the International Standard for Testing and Investigations, IPF
                          may establish a Testing Pool, which includes Athletes who are subject to less
                          stringent whereabouts requirements than Athletes included in IPF’s Registered
                          Testing Pool.

                5.5.10    IPF shall notify Athletes before they are included in the Testing Pool and when
                          they are removed. Such notification shall include the whereabouts requirements
                          and the consequences that apply in case of non-compliance, as indicated in
                          Articles 5.5.11 and 5.5.12.

                5.5.11    Athletes included in the Testing Pool shall provide IPF at least with the following
                          whereabouts information so that they may be located and subjected to Testing:
                          (a) An overnight address;
                          (b) Competition / Event schedule; and
                          (c) Regular training activities.
                          Such whereabouts information should be filed in ADAMS to enable better
                          Testing coordination with other Anti-Doping Organizations.

                5.5.12    An Athlete’s failure to provide whereabouts information on or before the date
                          required by IPF or the Athlete’s failure to provide accurate whereabouts
                          information might result in IPF elevating the Athlete to IPF’s Registered Testing
                          Pool (if one is established) and additional appropriate and proportionate non-
                          Code Article 2.4 consequences, established by IPF if any.


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                   Page 19 of 66
           5.6       Retired Athletes Returning to Competition

                     5.6.1        If an International-Level Athlete or National-Level Athlete in IPF’s Registered
                                  Testing Pool retires and then wishes to return to active participation in sport, the
                                  Athlete shall not compete in International Events or National Events until the
                                  Athlete has made himself or herself available for Testing, by giving six (6) months
                                  prior written notice to IPF and their National Anti-Doping Organization.

                                  WADA, in consultation with IPF and the Athlete's National Anti-Doping
                                  Organization, may grant an exemption to the six (6) month written notice rule
                                  where the strict application of that rule would be unfair to the Athlete. This
                                  decision may be appealed under Article 13. 27

                                  Any competitive results obtained in violation of this Article 5.6.1 shall be
                                  Disqualified unless the Athlete can establish that he or she could not have
                                  reasonably known that this was an International Event or a National Event.

                     5.6.2        If an Athlete retires from sport while subject to a period of Ineligibility, the Athlete
                                  must notify the Anti-Doping Organization that imposed the period of Ineligibility
                                  in writing of such retirement. If the Athlete then wishes to return to active
                                  competition in sport, the Athlete shall not compete in International Events or
                                  National Events until the Athlete has made himself or herself available for
                                  Testing by giving six (6) months prior written notice (or notice equivalent to the
                                  period of Ineligibility remaining as of the date the Athlete retired, if that period
                                  was longer than six (6) months) to IPF and to their National Anti-Doping
                                  Organization.

           5.7       Independent Observer Program

           IPF and the organizing committees for IPF’s Events, as well as the National Federations and the
           organizing committees for National Events, shall authorize and facilitate the Independent Observer
           Program at such Events.

ARTICLE 6            ANALYSIS OF SAMPLES

Samples shall be analyzed in accordance with the following principles:

           6.1       Use of Accredited, Approved Laboratories and Other Laboratories

                     6.1.1        For purposes of directly establishing an Adverse Analytical Finding under Article
                                  2.1, Samples shall be analyzed only in WADA-accredited laboratories or
                                  laboratories otherwise approved by WADA. The choice of the WADA-accredited
                                  or WADA-approved laboratory used for the Sample analysis shall be determined
                                  exclusively by IPF. 28




27
     [Comment to Article 5.6.1: WADA has developed a protocol and exemption application form that Athletes must use to make such
     requests, and a decision template that the International Federations must use. Both documents are available on WADA’s website
     at https://www.wada-ama.org.]
28   [Comment to Article 6.1: Violations of Article 2.1 may be established only by Sample analysis performed by a WADA-accredited
     laboratory or another laboratory approved by WADA. Violations of other Articles may be established using analytical results from
     other laboratories so long as the results are reliable.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                     Page 20 of 66
                      6.1.2        As provided in Article 3.2, facts related to anti-doping rule violations may be
                                   established by any reliable means. This would include, for example, reliable
                                   laboratory or other forensic testing conducted outside of WADA-accredited or
                                   approved laboratories.

           6.2        Purpose of Analysis of Samples and Data

           Samples and related analytical data or Doping Control information shall be analyzed to detect
           Prohibited Substances and Prohibited Methods identified on the Prohibited List and other
           substances as may be directed by WADA pursuant to the monitoring program described in Article
           4.5 of the Code, or to assist IPF in profiling relevant parameters in an Athlete’s urine, blood or other
           matrix, including for DNA or genomic profiling, or for any other legitimate anti-doping purpose.29

           6.3        Research on Samples and Data

           Samples, related analytical data and Doping Control information may be used for anti-doping
           research purposes, although no Sample may be used for research without the Athlete's written
           consent. Samples and related analytical data or Doping Control information used for research
           purposes shall first be processed in such a manner as to prevent Samples and related analytical
           data or Doping Control information being traced back to a particular Athlete. Any research involving
           Samples and related analytical data or Doping Control information shall adhere to the principles
           set out in Article 19 of the Code.30

           6.4        Standards for Sample Analysis and Reporting

           In accordance with Article 6.4 of the Code, IPF shall ask laboratories to analyze Samples in
           conformity with the International Standard for Laboratories and Article 4.7 of the International
           Standard for Testing and Investigations.

           Laboratories at their own initiative and expense may analyze Samples for Prohibited Substances
           or Prohibited Methods not included on the standard Sample analysis menu, or as requested by
           IPF. Results from any such analysis shall be reported to IPF and have the same validity and
           Consequences as any other analytical result.31

           6.5        Further Analysis of a Sample Prior to or During Results Management

           There shall be no limitation on the authority of a laboratory to conduct repeat or additional analysis
           on a Sample prior to the time IPF notifies an Athlete that the Sample is the basis for an Article 2.1
           anti-doping rule violation charge. If after such notification IPF wishes to conduct additional analysis
           on that Sample, it may do so with the consent of the Athlete or approval from a hearing body.



29   [Comment to Article 6.2: For example, relevant Doping Control-related information could be used to direct Target Testing or to
     support an anti-doping rule violation proceeding under Article 2.2, or both.]

30   [Comment to Article 6.3: As is the case in most medical or scientific contexts, use of Samples and related information for quality
     assurance, quality improvement, method improvement and development or to establish reference populations is not considered
     research. Samples and related information used for such permitted non-research purposes must also first be processed in such
     a manner as to prevent them from being traced back to the particular Athlete, having due regard to the principles set out in Article
     19 of the Code, as well as the requirements of the International Standard for Laboratories and International Standard for the
     Protection of Privacy and Personal Information.]

31   [Comment to Article 6.4: The objective of this Article is to extend the principle of “Intelligent Testing” to the Sample analysis menu
     so as to most effectively and efficiently detect doping. It is recognized that the resources available to fight doping are limited and
     that increasing the Sample analysis menu may, in some sports and countries, reduce the number of Samples which can be
     analyzed.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                          Page 21 of 66
           6.6       Further Analysis of a Sample After it has been Reported as Negative or has
                     Otherwise not Resulted in an Anti-Doping Rule Violation Charge

           After a laboratory has reported a Sample as negative, or the Sample has not otherwise resulted in
           an anti-doping rule violation charge, it may be stored and subjected to further analyses for the
           purpose of Article 6.2 at any time exclusively at the direction of either the Anti-Doping Organization
           that initiated and directed Sample collection or WADA. Any other Anti-Doping Organization with
           authority to test the Athlete that wishes to conduct further analysis on a stored Sample may do so
           with the permission of the Anti-Doping Organization that initiated and directed Sample collection or
           WADA, and shall be responsible for any follow-up Results Management. Any Sample storage or
           further analysis initiated by WADA or another Anti-Doping Organization shall be at WADA’s or that
           organization's expense. Further analysis of Samples shall conform with the requirements of the
           International Standard for Laboratories.

           6.7       Split of A or B Sample

           Where WADA, an Anti-Doping Organization with Results Management authority, and/or a WADA-
           accredited laboratory (with approval from WADA or the Anti-Doping Organization with Results
           Management authority) wishes to split an A or B Sample for the purpose of using the first part of
           the split Sample for an A Sample analysis and the second part of the split Sample for confirmation,
           then the procedures set forth in the International Standard for Laboratories shall be followed.

           6.8       WADA’s Right to Take Possession of Samples and Data

           WADA may, in its sole discretion at any time, with or without prior notice, take physical possession
           of any Sample and related analytical data or information in the possession of a laboratory or Anti-
           Doping Organization. Upon request by WADA, the laboratory or Anti-Doping Organization in
           possession of the Sample or data shall immediately grant access to and enable WADA to take
           physical possession of the Sample or data. If WADA has not provided prior notice to the laboratory
           or Anti-Doping Organization before taking possession of a Sample or data, it shall provide such
           notice to the laboratory and each Anti-Doping Organization whose Samples or data have been
           taken by WADA within a reasonable time after taking possession. After analysis and any
           investigation of a seized Sample or data, WADA may direct another Anti-Doping Organization with
           authority to test the Athlete to assume Results Management responsibility for the Sample or data
           if a potential anti-doping rule violation is discovered. 32

ARTICLE 7            RESULTS MANAGEMENT: RESPONSIBILITY, INITIAL REVIEW, NOTICE AND
                     PROVISIONAL SUSPENSIONS

Results Management under these Anti-Doping Rules establishes a process designed to resolve anti-doping
rule violation matters in a fair, expeditious and efficient manner.

           7.1       Responsibility for Conducting Results Management


32   [Comment to Article 6.8: Resistance or refusal to WADA taking physical possession of Samples or data could constitute
     Tampering, Complicity or an act of non-compliance as provided in the International Standard for Code Compliance by Signatories,
     and could also constitute a violation of the International Standard for Laboratories. Where necessary, the laboratory and/or the
     Anti-Doping Organization shall assist WADA in ensuring that the seized Sample or data are not delayed in exiting the applicable
     country.

     WADA would not, of course, unilaterally take possession of Samples or analytical data without good cause related to a potential
     anti-doping rule violation, non-compliance by a Signatory or doping activities by another Person. However, the decision as to
     whether good cause exists is for WADA to make in its discretion and shall not be subject to challenge. In particular, whether there
     is good cause or not shall not be a defense against an anti-doping rule violation or its Consequences.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                        Page 22 of 66
                7.1.1      Except as otherwise provided in Articles 6.6, 6.8 and Code Article 7.1, Results
                           Management shall be the responsibility of, and shall be governed by, the
                           procedural rules of the Anti-Doping Organization that initiated and directed
                           Sample collection (or, if no Sample collection is involved, the Anti-Doping
                           Organization which first provides notice to an Athlete or other Person of a
                           potential anti-doping rule violation and then diligently pursues that anti-doping
                           rule violation).

                7.1.2      In circumstances where the rules of a National Anti-Doping Organization do not
                           give the National Anti-Doping Organization authority over an Athlete or other
                           Person who is not a national, resident, license holder, or member of a sport
                           organization of that country, or the National Anti-Doping Organization declines
                           to exercise such authority, Results Management shall be conducted by the
                           applicable International Federation or by a third party with authority over the
                           Athlete or other Person as directed by the rules of the applicable International
                           Federation.

                7.1.3      In the event the Major Event Organization assumes only limited Results
                           Management responsibility relating to a Sample initiated and taken during an
                           Event conducted by a Major Event Organization, or an anti-doping rule violation
                           occurring during such Event, the case shall be referred by the Major Event
                           Organization to the applicable International Federation for completion of Results
                           Management.

                7.1.4      Results Management in relation to a potential whereabouts failure (a filing failure
                           or a missed test) shall be administered by IPF or the National Anti-Doping
                           Organization with whom the Athlete in question files whereabouts information,
                           as provided in the International Standard for Results Management. If IPF
                           determines a filing failure or a missed test, it shall submit that information to
                           WADA through ADAMS, where it will be made available to other relevant Anti-
                           Doping Organizations.

                7.1.5      Other circumstances in which IPF shall take responsibility for conducting Results
                           Management in respect of anti-doping rule violations involving Athletes and other
                           Persons under its authority shall be determined by reference to and in accordance
                           with Article 7 of the Code.

                7.1.6      WADA may direct IPF to conduct Results Management in particular
                           circumstances. If IPF refuses to conduct Results Management within a
                           reasonable deadline set by WADA, such refusal shall be considered an act of
                           non-compliance, and WADA may direct another Anti-Doping Organization with
                           authority over the Athlete or other Person, that is willing to do so, to take Results
                           Management responsibility in place of IPF or, if there is no such Anti-Doping
                           Organization, any other Anti-Doping Organization that is willing to do so. In such
                           case, IPF shall reimburse the costs and attorney's fees of conducting Results
                           Management to the other Anti-Doping Organization designated by WADA, and
                           a failure to reimburse costs and attorney's fees shall be considered an act of
                           non-compliance.

        7.2     Review and Notification Regarding Potential Anti-Doping Rule Violations

        IPF shall carry out the review and notification with respect to any potential anti-doping rule violation
        in accordance with the International Standard for Results Management.



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                    Page 23 of 66
           7.2 Review and Notification Regarding Potential Anti-Doping Rule Violations

           IPF shall carry out the review and notification with respect to any potential anti-doping rule violation
           in accordance with the International Standard for Results Management.

                     7.2.1 In the event an Athlete exercises their right to request the analysis of the B Sample
                     further to being notified of an A Sample Adverse Analytical Finding, the costs of the B
                     Sample analysis shall be borne and paid in full by the Athlete prior to the analysis of the B
                     Sample.

                     7.2.2 In the event an Athlete requests copies of Laboratory Documentation Package(s)
                     further to being notified of an A Sample Adverse Analytical Finding or a B Sample Adverse
                     Analytical Finding confirmation, the costs relating to the issuance of Laboratory
                     Documentation Package(s) shall be borne and paid in full by the Athlete prior to IPF
                     sending the request to the Laboratory to issue the Laboratory Documentation Package(s).

                     7.2.3 In the event that the B Sample analysis does not confirm the A Sample Adverse
                     Analytical Finding or where there is finding that an Athlete has No Fault or Negligence for
                     an anti-doping rule violation, all laboratory costs previously borne by the Athlete in relation
                     to the same anti-doping rule violation, whether related to the B Sample analysis or the
                     issuance of Laboratory Documentation Package(s), shall be fully reimbursed to the Athlete.

           7.3       Identification of Prior Anti-Doping Rule Violations

           Before giving an Athlete or other Person notice of a potential anti-doping rule violation as provided
           above, IPF shall refer to ADAMS and contact WADA and other relevant Anti-Doping Organizations to
           determine whether any prior anti-doping rule violation exists.

           7.4       Provisional Suspensions 33

                     7.4.1        Mandatory Provisional Suspension after an Adverse Analytical Finding or
                                  Adverse Passport Finding

                                  If IPF receives an Adverse Analytical Finding or an Adverse Passport Finding
                                  (upon completion of the Adverse Passport Finding review process) for a
                                  Prohibited Substance or a Prohibited Method that is not a Specified Substance
                                  or a Specified Method, it shall impose a Provisional Suspension on the Athlete
                                  promptly upon or after the review and notification required by Article 7.2.

                                  A mandatory Provisional Suspension may be eliminated if: (i) the Athlete
                                  demonstrates to the IPF Doping Hearing Panel (“DHP”) that the violation is likely
                                  to have involved a Contaminated Product, or (ii) the violation involves a
                                  Substance of Abuse and the Athlete establishes entitlement to a reduced period
                                  of Ineligibility under Article 10.2.4.1.

                                  The DHP’s decision not to eliminate a mandatory Provisional Suspension on
                                  account of the Athlete’s assertion regarding a Contaminated Product shall not
                                  be appealable.




33   [Comment to Article 7.4: Before a Provisional Suspension can be unilaterally imposed by IPF, the internal review specified in these
     Anti-Doping Rules and the International Standard for Results Management must first be completed.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                        Page 24 of 66
                7.4.2     Optional Provisional Suspension Based on an Adverse Analytical Finding for
                          Specified Substances, Specified Methods, Contaminated Products, or Other
                          Anti-Doping Rule Violations

                          IPF may impose a Provisional Suspension for anti-doping rule violations not
                          covered by Article 7.4.1 prior to the analysis of the Athlete’s B Sample or final
                          hearing as described in Article 8.

                          An optional Provisional Suspension may be lifted at the discretion of IPF at any
                          time prior to the DHP’s decision under Article 8, unless provided otherwise in the
                          International Standard for Results Management.

                7.4.3     Opportunity for Hearing or Appeal

                          Notwithstanding Articles 7.4.1 and 7.4.2, a Provisional Suspension may not be
                          imposed unless the Athlete or other Person is given: (a) an opportunity for a
                          Provisional Hearing, either before or on a timely basis after the imposition of the
                          Provisional Suspension; or (b) an opportunity for an expedited hearing in
                          accordance with Article 8 on a timely basis after the imposition of the Provisional
                          Suspension.

                          The imposition of a Provisional Suspension, or the decision not to impose a
                          Provisional Suspension, may be appealed in an expedited process in
                          accordance with Article 13.2.

                7.4.4     Voluntary Acceptance of Provisional Suspension

                          Athletes on their own initiative may voluntarily accept a Provisional Suspension
                          if done so prior to the later of: (i) the expiration of ten (10) days from the report
                          of the B Sample (or waiver of the B Sample) or ten (10) days from the notice of
                          any other anti-doping rule violation, or (ii) the date on which the Athlete first
                          competes after such report or notice.

                          Other Persons on their own initiative may voluntarily accept a Provisional
                          Suspension if done so within ten (10) days from the notice of the anti-doping rule
                          violation.

                          Upon such voluntary acceptance, the Provisional Suspension shall have the full
                          effect and be treated in the same manner as if the Provisional Suspension had
                          been imposed under Article 7.4.1 or 7.4.2; provided, however, at any time after
                          voluntarily accepting a Provisional Suspension, the Athlete or other Person may
                          withdraw such acceptance, in which event the Athlete or other Person shall not
                          receive any credit for time previously served during the Provisional Suspension.

                7.4.5     If a Provisional Suspension is imposed based on an A Sample Adverse
                          Analytical Finding and a subsequent B Sample analysis (if requested by the
                          Athlete or IPF) does not confirm the A Sample analysis, then the Athlete shall
                          not be subject to any further Provisional Suspension on account of a violation of
                          Article 2.1. In circumstances where the Athlete has been removed from an Event
                          based on a violation of Article 2.1 and the subsequent B Sample analysis does
                          not confirm the A Sample finding, then, if it is still possible for the Athlete to be
                          reinserted, without otherwise affecting the Event, the Athlete may continue to
                          take part in the Event.



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                   Page 25 of 66
           7.5        Results Management Decisions

           Results Management decisions or adjudications by IPF must not purport to be limited to a particular
           geographic area or the IPF’s sport and shall address and determine without limitation the following
           issues: (i) whether an anti-doping rule violation was committed or a Provisional Suspension should
           be imposed, the factual basis for such determination, and the specific Articles that have been
           violated, and (ii) all Consequences flowing from the anti-doping rule violation(s), including
           applicable Disqualifications under Articles 9 and 10.10, any forfeiture of medals or prizes, any
           period of Ineligibility (and the date it begins to run) and any Financial Consequences.34

           7.6        Notification of Results Management Decisions

           IPF shall notify Athletes, other Persons, Signatories and WADA of Results Management decisions
           as provided in Article 14.2 and in the International Standard for Results Management.

           7.7        Retirement from Sport35

           If an Athlete or other Person retires while the IPF’s Results Management process is underway, IPF
           retains authority to complete its Results Management process. If an Athlete or other Person retires
           before any Results Management process has begun, and IPF would have had Results
           Management authority over the Athlete or other Person at the time the Athlete or other Person
           committed an anti-doping rule violation, IPF has authority to conduct Results Management.


ARTICLE 8             RESULTS MANAGEMENT: RIGHT TO A FAIR HEARING AND NOTICE OF HEARING
                      DECISION

For any Person who is asserted to have committed an anti-doping rule violation, IPF shall provide a fair
hearing within a reasonable time by a fair, impartial and Operationally Independent hearing panel in
compliance with the Code and the International Standard for Results Management.

           8.1        Fair Hearings

                      8.1.1 Fair, Impartial and Operationally Independent Hearing Panel

                                    8.1.1.1       IPF shall establish a Doping Hearing Panel (“DHP”) which has
                                                  jurisdiction to hear and determine whether an Athlete or other Person,




34   [Comment to Article 7.5: Results Management decisions include Provisional Suspensions.

     Each IPF decision should address whether an anti-doping rule violation was committed and all Consequences flowing from the
     violation, including any Disqualifications other than Disqualification under Article 10.1 (which is left to the ruling body for an Event).
     Pursuant to Article 15, such decision and its imposition of Consequences shall have automatic effect in every sport in every
     country. For example, for a determination that an Athlete committed an anti-doping rule violation based on an Adverse Analytical
     Finding for a Sample taken In-Competition, the Athlete’s results obtained in the Competition would be Disqualified under Article 9
     and all other competitive results obtained by the Athlete from the date the Sample was collected through the duration of the period
     of Ineligibility are also Disqualified under Article 10.10; if the Adverse Analytical Finding resulted from Testing at an Event, it would
     be the Major Event Organization’s responsibility to decide whether the Athlete’s other individual results in the Event prior to Sample
     collection are also Disqualified under Article 10.1.]

35   [Comment to Article 7.7: Conduct by an Athlete or other Person before the Athlete or other Person was subject to the authority of
     any Anti-Doping Organization would not constitute an anti-doping rule violation but could be a legitimate basis for denying the
     Athlete or other Person membership in a sports organization.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                              Page 26 of 66
                                    subject to these Anti-Doping Rules, has committed an anti-doping rule
                                    violation and, if applicable, to impose relevant Consequences.

                          8.1.1.2   IPF shall ensure that the DHP and its members are free of conflict of
                                    interests and that its composition, term of office, professional
                                    experience, Operational Independence and adequate financing
                                    comply with the requirements of the International Standard for Results
                                    Management.

                          8.1.1.3   Board members, staff members, commission members, consultants
                                    and officials of IPF or its affiliates (e.g. National Federations or
                                    confederation), as well as any Person involved in the investigation and
                                    pre-adjudication of the matter, cannot be appointed as members
                                    and/or clerks (to the extent that such clerk is involved in the
                                    deliberation process and/or drafting of any decision) of the DHP. In
                                    particular, no member shall have previously considered any TUE
                                    application, Results Management decision, or appeals in the same
                                    given case.

                          8.1.1.4   The DHP shall consist of an independent Chair and three other
                                    independent members.

                          8.1.1.5   Each member shall be appointed by taking into consideration their
                                    requisite anti-doping experience including their legal, sports, medical
                                    and/or scientific expertise. Each member shall be appointed for a
                                    renewable term of three (3) years for a maximum of four terms.

                          8.1.1.6   The DHP shall be in a position to conduct the hearing and decision-
                                    making process without interference from IPF or any third party.

                8.1.2   Hearing Process

                          8.1.2.1   When IPF sends a notice to an Athlete or other Person notifying them
                                    of a potential anti-doping rule violation, and the Athlete or other Person
                                    does not waive a hearing in accordance with Article 8.3.1 or Article
                                    8.3.2, then the case shall be referred to the DHP for hearing and
                                    adjudication, which shall be conducted in accordance with the
                                    principles described in Articles 8 and 9 of the International Standard
                                    for Results Management.

                          8.1.2.2   The Chair shall appoint one (1) member (which may be the Chair) to
                                    hear any case referred to the DHP. In more complex cases where the
                                    Chair deems a three-person panel is necessary for the fair
                                    adjudication of the matter, the Chair shall appoint a three-person
                                    panel. In such a case, one (1) panel member shall be a qualified
                                    lawyer, with no less than three (3) years of relevant legal experience,
                                    and one (1) panel member shall be a qualified medical practitioner,
                                    with no less than three (3) years of relevant medical experience.

                          8.1.2.3   Upon appointment as a member of the DHP, each member must also
                                    sign a declaration that there are no facts or circumstances known to
                                    him or her which might call into question their impartiality in the eyes




IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                  Page 27 of 66
                                                 of any of the parties, other than those circumstances disclosed in the
                                                 declaration.

                                   8.1.2.4       Hearings held in connection with Events in respect to Athletes and
                                                 other Persons who are subject to these Anti-Doping Rules may be
                                                 conducted by an expedited process where permitted by the DHP.36

                                   8.1.2.5       WADA, the National Federation and the National Anti-Doping
                                                 Organization of the Athlete or other Person may attend the hearing as
                                                 observers. In any event, IPF shall keep them fully apprised as to the
                                                 status of pending cases and the result of all hearings.

           8.2        Notice of Decisions

                      8.2.1        At the end of the hearing, or promptly thereafter, the DHP shall issue a written
                                   decision that conforms with Article 9 of the International Standard for Results
                                   Management and which includes the full reasons for the decision, the period of
                                   Ineligibility imposed, the Disqualification of results under Article 10.10 and, if
                                   applicable, a justification for why the greatest potential Consequences were not
                                   imposed.

                      8.2.2        IPF shall notify that decision to the Athlete or other Person and to other Anti-
                                   Doping Organizations with a right to appeal under Article 13.2.3, and shall
                                   promptly report it into ADAMS. The decision may be appealed as provided in
                                   Article 13.

           8.3        Waiver of Hearing

                      8.3.1        An Athlete or other Person against whom an anti-doping rule violation is asserted
                                   may waive a hearing expressly and agree with the Consequences proposed by
                                   IPF.

                      8.3.2        However, if the Athlete or other Person against whom an anti-doping rule violation
                                   is asserted fails to dispute that assertion within twenty (20) days or the deadline
                                   otherwise specified in the notice sent by the IPF asserting the violation, then they
                                   shall be deemed to have waived a hearing, to have admitted the violation, and to
                                   have accepted the proposed Consequences.

                      8.3.3        In cases where Article 8.3.1 or 8.3.2 applies, a hearing before the DHP shall not be
                                   required. Instead IPF shall promptly issue a written decision that conforms with
                                   Article 9 of the International Standard for Results Management and which includes
                                   the full reasons for the decision, the period of Ineligibility imposed, the
                                   Disqualification of results under Article 10.10 and, if applicable, a justification for
                                   why the greatest potential Consequences were not imposed.

                      8.3.4        IPF shall notify that decision to the Athlete or other Person and to other Anti-Doping
                                   Organizations with a right to appeal under Article 13.2.3, and shall promptly
                                   report it into ADAMS. IPF shall Publicly Disclose that decision in accordance with
                                   Article 14.3.2.

           8.4        Single Hearing Before CAS

36   [Comment to Article 8.1.2.4: For example, a hearing could be expedited on the eve of a major Event where the resolution of the
     anti-doping rule violation is necessary to determine the Athlete's eligibility to participate in the Event, or during an Event where the
     resolution of the case will affect the validity of the Athlete's results or continued participation in the Event.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                            Page 28 of 66
           Anti-doping rule violations asserted against International-Level Athletes, National-Level Athletes or
           other Persons may, with the consent of the Athlete or other Person, IPF (where it has Results
           Management responsibility in accordance with Article 7) and WADA, be heard in a single hearing
           directly at CAS.37

ARTICLE 9             AUTOMATIC DISQUALIFICATION OF INDIVIDUAL RESULTS

An anti-doping rule violation in Individual Sports in connection with an In-Competition test automatically
leads to Disqualification of the result obtained in that Competition with all resulting Consequences, including
forfeiture of any medals, points and prizes.38

ARTICLE 10            SANCTIONS ON INDIVIDUALS

           10.1       Disqualification of Results in the Event during which an Anti-Doping Rule Violation
                      Occurs

                      10.1.1       An anti-doping rule violation occurring during or in connection with an Event may,
                                   upon the decision of the ruling body of the Event, lead to Disqualification of all of
                                   the Athlete's individual results obtained in that Event with all Consequences,
                                   including forfeiture of all medals, points and prizes, except as provided in Article
                                   10.1.2.

                                   Factors to be included in considering whether to Disqualify other results in an Event
                                   might include, for example, the seriousness of the Athlete’s anti-doping rule
                                   violation and whether the Athlete tested negative in the other Competitions.39

                      10.1.2       If the Athlete establishes that he or she bears No Fault or Negligence for the
                                   violation, the Athlete's individual results in the other Competitions shall not be
                                   Disqualified, unless the Athlete's results in Competitions other than the
                                   Competition in which the anti-doping rule violation occurred were likely to have
                                   been affected by the Athlete's anti-doping rule violation.

           10.2       Ineligibility for Presence, Use or Attempted Use, or Possession of a Prohibited
                      Substance or Prohibited Method

           The period of Ineligibility for a violation of Article 2.1, 2.2 or 2.6 shall be as follows, subject to
           potential elimination, reduction or suspension pursuant to Article 10.5, 10.6 or 10.7:


37   [Comment to Article 8.4: In some cases, the combined cost of holding a hearing in the first instance at the international or national
     level, then rehearing the case de novo before CAS can be very substantial. Where all of the parties identified in this Article are
     satisfied that their interests will be adequately protected in a single hearing, there is no need for the Athlete or Anti-Doping
     Organizations to incur the extra expense of two (2) hearings. An Anti-Doping Organization may participate in the CAS hearing as
     an observer. Nothing set out in Article 8.4 precludes the Athlete or other Person and IPF (where it has Results Management
     responsibility) to waive their right to appeal by agreement. Such waiver, however, only binds the parties to such agreement and
     not any other entity with a right of appeal under the Code]

38   [Comment to Article 9: For Team Sports, any awards received by individual players will be Disqualified. However, Disqualification
     of the team will be as provided in Article 11. In sports which are not Team Sports but where awards are given to teams,
     Disqualification or other disciplinary action against the team when one or more team members have committed an anti-doping rule
     violation shall be as provided in the applicable rules of the International Federation.]

39   [Comment to Article 10.1.1: Whereas Article 9 Disqualifies the result in a single Competition in which the Athlete tested positive
     (e.g., the 100 meter backstroke), this Article may lead to Disqualification of all results in all races during the Event (e.g., the
     swimming World Championships).]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                         Page 29 of 66
                      10.2.1       The period of Ineligibility, subject to Article 10.2.4, shall be four (4) years where:

                                   10.2.1.1 The anti-doping rule violation does not involve a Specified Substance
                                            or a Specified Method, unless the Athlete or other Person can
                                            establish that the anti-doping rule violation was not intentional. 40

                                   10.2.1.2 The anti-doping rule violation involves a Specified Substance or a
                                            Specified Method and IPF can establish that the anti-doping rule
                                            violation was intentional.

                      10.2.2       If Article 10.2.1 does not apply, subject to Article 10.2.4.1, the period of
                                   Ineligibility shall be two (2) years.

                      10.2.3       As used in Article 10.2, the term “intentional” is meant to identify those Athletes
                                   or other Persons who engage in conduct which they knew constituted an anti-
                                   doping rule violation or knew that there was a significant risk that the conduct
                                   might constitute or result in an anti-doping rule violation and manifestly
                                   disregarded that risk. An anti-doping rule violation resulting from an Adverse
                                   Analytical Finding for a substance which is only prohibited In-Competition shall
                                   be rebuttably presumed to be not “intentional” if the substance is a Specified
                                   Substance and the Athlete can establish that the Prohibited Substance was
                                   Used Out-of-Competition. An anti-doping rule violation resulting from an Adverse
                                   Analytical Finding for a substance which is only prohibited In-Competition shall
                                   not be considered “intentional” if the substance is not a Specified Substance and
                                   the Athlete can establish that the Prohibited Substance was Used Out-of-
                                   Competition in a context unrelated to sport performance.41

                      10.2.4       Notwithstanding any other provision in Article 10.2, where the anti-doping rule
                                   violation involves a Substance of Abuse:

                                   10.2.4.1 If the Athlete can establish that any ingestion or Use occurred Out-of-
                                            Competition and was unrelated to sport performance, then the period
                                            of Ineligibility shall be three (3) months Ineligibility.

                                                 In addition, the period of Ineligibility calculated under this Article
                                                 10.2.4.1 may be reduced to one (1) month if the Athlete or other
                                                 Person satisfactorily completes a Substance of Abuse treatment
                                                 program approved by IPF. The period of Ineligibility established in this
                                                 Article 10.2.4.1 is not subject to any reduction based on any provision
                                                 in Article 10.6.42




40   [Comment to Article 10.2.1.1: While it is theoretically possible for an Athlete or other Person to establish that the anti-doping rule
     violation was not intentional without showing how the Prohibited Substance entered one’s system, it is highly unlikely that in a
     doping case under Article 2.1 an Athlete will be successful in proving that the Athlete acted unintentionally without establishing
     the source of the Prohibited Substance.]

41   [Comment to Article 10.2.3: Article 10.2.3 provides a special definition of “intentional” which is to be applied solely for purposes of
     Article 10.2.]

42   [Comment to Article 10.2.4.1: The determinations as to whether the treatment program is approved and whether the Athlete or
     other Person has satisfactorily completed the program shall be made in the sole discretion of IPF. This Article is intended to give
     IPF the leeway to apply their own judgment to identify and approve legitimate and reputable, as opposed to “sham”, treatment
     programs. It is anticipated, however, that the characteristics of legitimate treatment programs may vary widely and change over
     time such that it would not be practical for WADA to develop mandatory criteria for acceptable treatment programs.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                           Page 30 of 66
                                   10.2.4.2 If the ingestion, Use or Possession occurred In-Competition, and the
                                            Athlete can establish that the context of the ingestion, Use or
                                            Possession was unrelated to sport performance, then the ingestion,
                                            Use or Possession shall not be considered intentional for purposes of
                                            Article 10.2.1 and shall not provide a basis for a finding of Aggravating
                                            Circumstances under Article 10.4.

           10.3       Ineligibility for Other Anti-Doping Rule Violations

           The period of Ineligibility for anti-doping rule violations other than as provided in Article 10.2 shall
           be as follows, unless Article 10.6 or 10.7 are applicable:

                      10.3.1       For violations of Article 2.3 or 2.5, the period of Ineligibility shall be four (4) years
                                   except: (i) in the case of failing to submit to Sample collection, if the Athlete can
                                   establish that the commission of the anti-doping rule violation was not intentional,
                                   the period of Ineligibility shall be two (2) years; (ii) in all other cases, if the Athlete
                                   or other Person can establish exceptional circumstances that justify a reduction
                                   of the period of Ineligibility, the period of Ineligibility shall be in a range from two
                                   (2) years to four (4) years depending on the Athlete or other Person’s degree of
                                   Fault; or (iii) in a case involving a Protected Person or Recreational Athlete, the
                                   period of Ineligibility shall be in a range between a maximum of two (2) years
                                   and, at a minimum, a reprimand and no period of Ineligibility, depending on the
                                   Protected Person or Recreational Athlete’s degree of Fault.

                      10.3.2       For violations of Article 2.4, the period of Ineligibility shall be two (2) years,
                                   subject to reduction down to a minimum of one (1) year, depending on the
                                   Athlete’s degree of Fault. The flexibility between two (2) years and one (1) year
                                   of Ineligibility in this Article is not available to Athletes where a pattern of last-
                                   minute whereabouts changes or other conduct raises a serious suspicion that
                                   the Athlete was trying to avoid being available for Testing.

                      10.3.3       For violations of Article 2.7 or 2.8, the period of Ineligibility shall be a minimum
                                   of four (4) years up to lifetime Ineligibility, depending on the seriousness of the
                                   violation. An Article 2.7 or Article 2.8 violation involving a Protected Person shall
                                   be considered a particularly serious violation and, if committed by Athlete
                                   Support Personnel for violations other than for Specified Substances, shall result
                                   in lifetime Ineligibility for Athlete Support Personnel. In addition, significant
                                   violations of Article 2.7 or 2.8 which may also violate non-sporting laws and
                                   regulations, shall be reported to the competent administrative, professional or
                                   judicial authorities.43

                      10.3.4       For violations of Article 2.9, the period of Ineligibility imposed shall be a minimum
                                   of two (2) years, up to lifetime Ineligibility, depending on the seriousness of the
                                   violation.




43   [Comment to Article 10.3.3: Those who are involved in doping Athletes or covering up doping should be subject to sanctions which
     are more severe than the Athletes who test positive. Since the authority of sport organizations is generally limited to Ineligibility
     for accreditation, membership and other sport benefits, reporting Athlete Support Personnel to competent authorities is an
     important step in the deterrence of doping.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                         Page 31 of 66
                     10.3.5        For violations of Article 2.10, the period of Ineligibility shall be two (2) years,
                                   subject to reduction down to a minimum of one (1) year, depending on the
                                   Athlete or other Person’s degree of Fault and other circumstances of the case.44


                     10.3.6        For violations of Article 2.11, the period of Ineligibility shall be a minimum of two
                                   (2) years, up to lifetime Ineligibility, depending on the seriousness of the violation
                                   by the Athlete or other Person.45

           10.4      Aggravating Circumstances which may Increase the Period of Ineligibility

           If IPF establishes in an individual case involving an anti-doping rule violation other than violations
           under Article 2.7 (Trafficking or Attempted Trafficking), 2.8 (Administration or Attempted
           Administration), 2.9 (Complicity) or 2.11 (Acts by an Athlete or Other Person to Discourage or
           Retaliate Against Reporting) that Aggravating Circumstances are present which justify the
           imposition of a period of Ineligibility greater than the standard sanction, then the period of
           Ineligibility otherwise applicable shall be increased by an additional period of Ineligibility of up to
           two (2) years depending on the seriousness of the violation and the nature of the Aggravating
           Circumstances, unless the Athlete or other Person can establish that he or she did not knowingly
           commit the anti-doping rule violation.46


           10.5      Elimination of the Period of Ineligibility where there is No Fault or Negligence

           If an Athlete or other Person establishes in an individual case that he or she bears No Fault or
           Negligence, then the otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility shall be eliminated.47

           10.6      Reduction of the Period of Ineligibility based on No Significant Fault or Negligence

                     10.6.1        Reduction of Sanctions in Particular Circumstances for Violations of Article 2.1,
                                   2.2 or 2.6.

                                   All reductions under Article 10.6.1 are mutually exclusive and not cumulative.


44   [Comment to Article 10.3.5: Where the “other Person” referenced in Article 2.10 is an entity and not an individual, that entity may
     be disciplined as provided in Article 12.]

45   [Comment to Article 10.3.6: Conduct that is found to violate both Article 2.5 (Tampering) and Article 2.11 (Acts by an Athlete or
     Other Person to Discourage or Retaliate Against Reporting to Authorities) shall be sanctioned based on the violation that carries
     the more severe sanction.]

46   [Comment to Article 10.4: Violations under Articles 2.7 (Trafficking or Attempted Trafficking), 2.8 (Administration or Attempted
     Administration), 2.9 (Complicity or Attempted Complicity) and 2.11 (Acts by an Athlete or Other Person to Discourage or Retaliate
     Against Reporting to Authorities) are not included in the application of Article 10.4 because the sanctions for these violations
     already build in sufficient discretion up to a lifetime ban to allow consideration of any Aggravating Circumstance.]

47   [Comment to Article 10.5: This Article and Article 10.6.2 apply only to the imposition of sanctions; they are not applicable to the
     determination of whether an anti-doping rule violation has occurred. They will only apply in exceptional circumstances, for example,
     where an Athlete could prove that, despite all due care, he or she was sabotaged by a competitor. Conversely, No Fault or
     Negligence would not apply in the following circumstances: (a) a positive test resulting from a mislabeled or contaminated vitamin
     or nutritional supplement (Athletes are responsible for what they ingest (Article 2.1) and have been warned against the possibility
     of supplement contamination); (b) the Administration of a Prohibited Substance by the Athlete’s personal physician or trainer
     without disclosure to the Athlete (Athletes are responsible for their choice of medical personnel and for advising medical personnel
     that they cannot be given any Prohibited Substance); and (c) sabotage of the Athlete’s food or drink by a spouse, coach or other
     Person within the Athlete’s circle of associates (Athletes are responsible for what they ingest and for the conduct of those Persons
     to whom they entrust access to their food and drink). However, depending on the unique facts of a particular case, any of the
     referenced illustrations could result in a reduced sanction under Article 10.6 based on No Significant Fault or Negligence.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                         Page 32 of 66
                                   10.6.1.1 Specified Substances or Specified Methods

                                                 Where the anti-doping rule violation involves a Specified Substance
                                                 (other than a Substance of Abuse) or Specified Method, and the
                                                 Athlete or other Person can establish No Significant Fault or
                                                 Negligence, then the period of Ineligibility shall be, at a minimum, a
                                                 reprimand and no period of Ineligibility, and at a maximum, two (2)
                                                 years of Ineligibility, depending on the Athlete’s or other Person’s
                                                 degree of Fault.

                                   10.6.1.2 Contaminated Products

                                                 In cases where the Athlete or other Person can establish both No
                                                 Significant Fault or Negligence and that the detected Prohibited
                                                 Substance (other than a Substance of Abuse) came from a
                                                 Contaminated Product, then the period of Ineligibility shall be, at a
                                                 minimum, a reprimand and no period of Ineligibility, and at a
                                                 maximum, two (2) years Ineligibility, depending on the Athlete or other
                                                 Person’s degree of Fault.48

                                   10.6.1.3 Protected Persons or Recreational Athletes

                                   Where the anti-doping rule violation not involving a Substance of Abuse is
                                   committed by a Protected Person or Recreational Athlete, and the Protected
                                   Person or Recreational Athlete can establish No Significant Fault or Negligence,
                                   then the period of Ineligibility shall be, at a minimum, a reprimand and no period
                                   of Ineligibility, and at a maximum, two (2) years Ineligibility, depending on the
                                   Protected Person or Recreational Athlete’s degree of Fault.

                      10.6.2       Application of No Significant Fault or Negligence beyond the Application of
                                   Article 10.6.1

                      If an Athlete or other Person establishes in an individual case where Article 10.6.1 is not
                      applicable that he or she bears No Significant Fault or Negligence, then, subject to further
                      reduction or elimination as provided in Article 10.7, the otherwise applicable period of
                      Ineligibility may be reduced based on the Athlete or other Person’s degree of Fault, but the
                      reduced period of Ineligibility may not be less than one-half of the period of Ineligibility




48   [Comment to Article 10.6.1.2: In order to receive the benefit of this Article, the Athlete or other Person must establish not only that
     the detected Prohibited Substance came from a Contaminated Product, but must also separately establish No Significant Fault or
     Negligence. It should be further noted that Athletes are on notice that they take nutritional supplements at their own risk. The
     sanction reduction based on No Significant Fault or Negligence has rarely been applied in Contaminated Product cases unless
     the Athlete has exercised a high level of caution before taking the Contaminated Product. In assessing whether the Athlete can
     establish the source of the Prohibited Substance, it would, for example, be significant for purposes of establishing whether the
     Athlete actually Used the Contaminated Product, whether the Athlete had declared the product which was subsequently
     determined to be contaminated on the Doping Control form.

     This Article should not be extended beyond products that have gone through some process of manufacturing. Where an Adverse
     Analytical Finding results from environment contamination of a “non-product” such as tap water or lake water in circumstances
     where no reasonable person would expect any risk of an anti-doping rule violation, typically there would be No Fault or Negligence
     under Article 10.5.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                           Page 33 of 66
                      otherwise applicable. If the otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility is a lifetime, the
                      reduced period under this Article may be no less than eight (8) years.49

           10.7       Elimination, Reduction, or Suspension of Period of Ineligibility or other
                      Consequences for Reasons other than Fault

                      10.7.1        Substantial Assistance in Discovering or Establishing Code Violations50

                                    10.7.1.1 IPF may, prior to an appellate decision under Article 13 or the
                                             expiration of the time to appeal, suspend a part of the Consequences
                                             (other than Disqualification and mandatory Public Disclosure)
                                             imposed in an individual case where the Athlete or other Person has
                                             provided Substantial Assistance to an Anti-Doping Organization,
                                             criminal authority or professional disciplinary body which results in: (i)
                                             the Anti-Doping Organization discovering or bringing forward an anti-
                                             doping rule violation by another Person; or (ii) which results in a
                                             criminal or disciplinary body discovering or bringing forward a criminal
                                             offense or the breach of professional rules committed by another
                                             Person and the information provided by the Person providing
                                             Substantial Assistance is made available to IPF or other Anti-Doping
                                             Organization with Results Management responsibility; or (iii) which
                                             results in WADA initiating a proceeding against a Signatory, WADA-
                                             accredited laboratory, or Athlete passport management unit (as
                                             defined in the International Standard for Laboratories) for non-
                                             compliance with the Code, International Standard or Technical
                                             Document; or (iv) with the approval by WADA, which results in a
                                             criminal or disciplinary body bringing forward a criminal offense or the
                                             breach of professional or sport rules arising out of a sport integrity
                                             violation other than doping. After an appellate decision under Article
                                             13 or the expiration of time to appeal, IPF may only suspend a part of
                                             the otherwise applicable Consequences with the approval of WADA.

                                                  The extent to which the otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility may
                                                  be suspended shall be based on the seriousness of the anti-doping
                                                  rule violation committed by the Athlete or other Person and the
                                                  significance of the Substantial Assistance provided by the Athlete or
                                                  other Person to the effort to eliminate doping in sport, non-compliance
                                                  with the Code and/or sport integrity violations. No more than three-
                                                  quarters of the otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility may be
                                                  suspended. If the otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility is a
                                                  lifetime, the non-suspended period under this Article must be no less
                                                  than eight (8) years. For purposes of this paragraph, the otherwise
                                                  applicable period of Ineligibility shall not include any period of
                                                  Ineligibility that could be added under Article 10.9.3.2 of these Anti-
                                                  Doping Rules.




49   [Comment to Article 10.6.2: Article 10.6.2 may be applied to any anti-doping rule violation except those Articles where intent is an
     element of the anti-doping rule violation (e.g., Article 2.5, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9 or 2.11) or an element of a particular sanction (e.g., Article
     10.2.1) or a range of Ineligibility is already provided in an Article based on the Athlete or other Person’s degree of Fault.]

50   [Comment to Article 10.7.1: The cooperation of Athletes, Athlete Support Personnel and other Persons who acknowledge their
     mistakes and are willing to bring other anti-doping rule violations to light is important to clean sport.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                              Page 34 of 66
                                              If requested by an Athlete or other Person who seeks to provide
                                              Substantial Assistance, IPF shall allow the Athlete or other Person to
                                              provide the information to it subject to a Without Prejudice Agreement.

                                              If the Athlete or other Person fails to continue to cooperate and to
                                              provide the complete and credible Substantial Assistance upon which
                                              a suspension of Consequences was based, IPF shall reinstate the
                                              original Consequences. If IPF decides to reinstate suspended
                                              Consequences or decides not to reinstate suspended Consequences,
                                              that decision may be appealed by any Person entitled to appeal under
                                              Article 13.

                                 10.7.1.2 To further encourage Athletes and other Persons to provide
                                          Substantial Assistance to Anti-Doping Organizations, at the request of
                                          IPF or at the request of the Athlete or other Person who has, or has
                                          been asserted to have, committed an anti-doping rule violation, or
                                          other violation of the Code, WADA may agree at any stage of the
                                          Results Management process, including after an appellate decision
                                          under Article 13, to what it considers to be an appropriate suspension
                                          of the otherwise-applicable period of Ineligibility and other
                                          Consequences. In exceptional circumstances, WADA may agree to
                                          suspensions of the period of Ineligibility and other Consequences for
                                          Substantial Assistance greater than those otherwise provided in this
                                          Article, or even no period of Ineligibility, no mandatory Public
                                          Disclosure and/or no return of prize money or payment of fines or
                                          costs. WADA’s approval shall be subject to reinstatement of
                                          Consequences, as otherwise provided in this Article. Notwithstanding
                                          Article 13, WADA’s decisions in the context of this Article 10.7.1.2 may
                                          not be appealed.

                                 10.7.1.3 If IPF suspends any part of an otherwise applicable sanction because
                                          of Substantial Assistance, then notice providing justification for the
                                          decision shall be provided to the other Anti-Doping Organizations with
                                          a right to appeal under Article 13.2.3 as provided in Article 14.2. In
                                          unique circumstances where WADA determines that it would be in the
                                          best interest of anti-doping, WADA may authorize IPF to enter into
                                          appropriate confidentiality agreements limiting or delaying the
                                          disclosure of the Substantial Assistance agreement or the nature of
                                          Substantial Assistance being provided.

                     10.7.2      Admission of an Anti-Doping Rule Violation in the Absence of Other Evidence

                     Where an Athlete or other Person voluntarily admits the commission of an anti-doping rule
                     violation before having received notice of a Sample collection which could establish an
                     anti-doping rule violation (or, in the case of an anti-doping rule violation other than Article
                     2.1, before receiving first notice of the admitted violation pursuant to Article 7) and that
                     admission is the only reliable evidence of the violation at the time of admission, then the
                     period of Ineligibility may be reduced, but not below one-half of the period of Ineligibility
                     otherwise applicable.51


51   [Comment to Article 10.7.2: This Article is intended to apply when an Athlete or other Person comes forward and admits to an
     anti-doping rule violation in circumstances where no Anti-Doping Organization is aware that an anti-doping rule violation might
     have been committed. It is not intended to apply to circumstances where the admission occurs after the Athlete or other Person



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                     Page 35 of 66
                      10.7.3        Application of Multiple Grounds for Reduction of a Sanction

                      Where an Athlete or other Person establishes entitlement to reduction in sanction under
                      more than one provision of Article 10.5, 10.6 or 10.7, before applying any reduction or
                      suspension under Article 10.7, the otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility shall be
                      determined in accordance with Articles 10.2, 10.3, 10.5, and 10.6. If the Athlete or other
                      Person establishes entitlement to a reduction or suspension of the period of Ineligibility
                      under Article 10.7, then the period of Ineligibility may be reduced or suspended, but not
                      below one-fourth of the otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility.

           10.8       Results Management Agreements

                      10.8.1        One (1) Year Reduction for Certain Anti-Doping Rule Violations Based on Early
                                    Admission and Acceptance of Sanction

                      Where an Athlete or other Person, after being notified by IPF of a potential anti-doping rule
                      violation that carries an asserted period of Ineligibility of four (4) or more years (including
                      any period of Ineligibility asserted under Article 10.4), admits the violation and accepts the
                      asserted period of Ineligibility no later than twenty (20) days after receiving notice of an
                      anti-doping rule violation charge, the Athlete or other Person may receive a one (1) year
                      reduction in the period of Ineligibility asserted by IPF. Where the Athlete or other Person
                      receives the one (1) year reduction in the asserted period of Ineligibility under this Article
                      10.8.1, no further reduction in the asserted period of Ineligibility shall be allowed under any
                      other Article.52

                      10.8.2        Case Resolution Agreement

                      Where the Athlete or other Person admits an anti-doping rule violation after being
                      confronted with the anti-doping rule violation by IPF and agrees to Consequences
                      acceptable to IPF and WADA, at their sole discretion, then: (a) the Athlete or other Person
                      may receive a reduction in the period of Ineligibility based on an assessment by IPF and
                      WADA of the application of Articles 10.1 through 10.7 to the asserted anti-doping rule
                      violation, the seriousness of the violation, the Athlete or other Person’s degree of Fault and
                      how promptly the Athlete or other Person admitted the violation; and (b) the period of
                      Ineligibility may start as early as the date of Sample collection or the date on which another
                      anti-doping rule violation last occurred. In each case, however, where this Article is applied,
                      the Athlete or other Person shall serve at least one-half of the agreed-upon period of
                      Ineligibility going forward from the earlier of the date the Athlete or other Person accepted
                      the imposition of a sanction or a Provisional Suspension which was subsequently
                      respected by the Athlete or other Person. The decision by WADA and IPF to enter or not
                      enter into a case resolution agreement, and the amount of the reduction to, and the starting
                      date of, the period of Ineligibility are not matters for determination or review by a hearing
                      body and are not subject to appeal under Article 13.

                      If so requested by an Athlete or other Person who seeks to enter into a case resolution
                      agreement under this Article, IPF shall allow the Athlete or other Person to discuss an

     believes he or she is about to be caught. The amount by which Ineligibility is reduced should be based on the likelihood that the
     Athlete or other Person would have been caught had he or she not come forward voluntarily.]

52   [Comment to Article 10.8.1: For example, if IPF alleges that an Athlete has violated Article 2.1 for Use of an anabolic steroid and
     asserts the applicable period of Ineligibility is four (4) years, then the Athlete may unilaterally reduce the period of Ineligibility to
     three (3) years by admitting the violation and accepting the three (3) year period of Ineligibility within the time specified in this
     Article, with no further reduction allowed. This resolves the case without any need for a hearing.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                             Page 36 of 66
                     admission of the anti-doping rule violation with it subject to a Without Prejudice
                     Agreement.53

           10.9      Multiple Violations

                     10.9.1       Second or Third Anti-Doping Rule Violation

                                  10.9.1.1 For an Athlete or other Person’s second anti-doping rule violation, the
                                           period of Ineligibility shall be the greater of:

                                               (a) A six (6) month period of Ineligibility; or

                                               (b) A period of Ineligibility in the range between:

                                                    (i) the sum of the period of Ineligibility imposed for the first anti-
                                                        doping rule violation plus the period of Ineligibility otherwise
                                                        applicable to the second anti-doping rule violation treated as
                                                        if it were a first violation, and

                                                    (ii) twice the period of Ineligibility otherwise applicable to the
                                                         second anti-doping rule violation treated as if it were a first
                                                         violation.

                                                          The period of Ineligibility within this range shall be determined
                                                          based on the entirety of the circumstances and the Athlete or
                                                          other Person’s degree of Fault with respect to the second
                                                          violation.

                                  10.9.1.2 A third anti-doping rule violation will always result in a lifetime period
                                           of Ineligibility, except if the third violation fulfills the condition for
                                           elimination or reduction of the period of Ineligibility under Article 10.5
                                           or 10.6, or involves a violation of Article 2.4. In these particular cases,
                                           the period of Ineligibility shall be from eight (8) years to lifetime
                                           Ineligibility.

                                  10.9.1.3 The period of Ineligibility established in Articles 10.9.1.1 and 10.9.1.2
                                           may then be further reduced by the application of Article 10.7.

                     10.9.2       An anti-doping rule violation for which an Athlete or other Person has established
                                  No Fault or Negligence shall not be considered a violation for purposes of this
                                  Article 10.9. In addition, an anti-doping rule violation sanctioned under Article
                                  10.2.4.1 shall not be considered a violation for purposes of Article 10.9.

                     10.9.3       Additional Rules for Certain Potential Multiple Violations

                                  10.9.3.1 For purposes of imposing sanctions under Article 10.9, except as
                                           provided in Articles 10.9.3.2 and 10.9.3.3, an anti-doping rule violation
                                           will only be considered a second violation if IPF can establish that the
                                           Athlete or other Person committed the additional anti-doping rule
                                           violation after the Athlete or other Person received notice pursuant to
                                           Article 7, or after IPF made reasonable efforts to give notice of the first


53   [Comment to Article 10.8: Any mitigating or aggravating factors set forth in this Article 10 shall be considered in arriving at the
     Consequences set forth in the case resolution agreement, and shall not be applicable beyond the terms of that agreement.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                        Page 37 of 66
                                                 anti-doping rule violation. If IPF cannot establish this, the violations
                                                 shall be considered together as one single first violation, and the
                                                 sanction imposed shall be based on the violation that carries the more
                                                 severe sanction, including the application of Aggravating
                                                 Circumstances. Results in all Competitions dating back to the earlier
                                                 anti-doping rule violation will be Disqualified as provided in Article
                                                 10.10.54

                                    10.9.3.2 If IPF establishes that an Athlete or other Person committed an
                                             additional anti-doping rule violation prior to notification, and that the
                                             additional violation occurred twelve (12) months or more before or
                                             after the first-noticed violation, then the period of Ineligibility for the
                                             additional violation shall be calculated as if the additional violation
                                             were a stand-alone first violation and this period of Ineligibility is
                                             served consecutively, rather than concurrently, with the period of
                                             Ineligibility imposed for the earlier-noticed violation. Where this Article
                                             10.9.3.2 applies, the violations taken together shall constitute a single
                                             violation for purposes of Article 10.9.1.

                                    10.9.3.3 If IPF establishes that an Athlete or other Person committed a violation
                                             of Article 2.5 in connection with the Doping Control process for an
                                             underlying asserted anti-doping rule violation, the violation of Article
                                             2.5 shall be treated as a stand-alone first violation and the period of
                                             Ineligibility for such violation shall be served consecutively, rather than
                                             concurrently, with the period of Ineligibility, if any, imposed for the
                                             underlying anti-doping rule violation. Where this Article 10.9.3.3 is
                                             applied, the violations taken together shall constitute a single violation
                                             for purposes of Article 10.9.1.

                                    10.9.3.4 If IPF establishes that a Person has committed a second or third anti-
                                             doping rule violation during a period of Ineligibility, the periods of
                                             Ineligibility for the multiple violations shall run consecutively, rather
                                             than concurrently.

                      10.9.4        Multiple Anti-Doping Rule Violations during Ten (10) Year Period

                      For purposes of Article 10.9, each anti-doping rule violation must take place within the same
                      ten (10) year period in order to be considered multiple violations.

           10.10      Disqualification of Results in Competitions Subsequent to Sample Collection or
                      Commission of an Anti-Doping Rule Violation

           In addition to the automatic Disqualification of the results in the Competition which produced the
           positive Sample under Article 9, all other competitive results of the Athlete obtained from the date
           a positive Sample was collected (whether In-Competition or Out-of-Competition), or other anti-
           doping rule violation occurred, through the commencement of any Provisional Suspension or




54   [Comment to Article 10.9.3.1: The same rule applies where, after the imposition of a sanction, IPF discovers facts involving an
     anti-doping rule violation that occurred prior to notification for a first anti-doping rule violation – e.g., IPF shall impose a sanction
     based on the sanction that could have been imposed if the two (2) violations had been adjudicated at the same time, including the
     application of Aggravating Circumstances.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                             Page 38 of 66
           Ineligibility period, shall, unless fairness requires otherwise, be Disqualified with all of the resulting
           Consequences including forfeiture of any medals, points and prizes. 55

           10.11     Forfeited Prize Money

           If IPF recovers prize money forfeited as a result of an anti-doping rule violation, it shall take
           reasonable measures to allocate and distribute this prize money to the Athletes who would have
           been entitled to it had the forfeiting Athlete not competed.56

           10.12     Financial Consequences

           Intentionally left blank.

           10.13     Commencement of Ineligibility Period

           Where an Athlete is already serving a period of Ineligibility for an anti-doping rule violation, any new
           period of Ineligibility shall commence on the first day after the current period of Ineligibility has been
           served. Otherwise, except as provided below, the period of Ineligibility shall start on the date of the
           final hearing decision providing for Ineligibility or, if the hearing is waived or there is no hearing, on
           the date Ineligibility is accepted or otherwise imposed.

                     10.13.1       Delays Not Attributable to the Athlete or other Person

                     Where there have been substantial delays in the hearing process or other aspects of
                     Doping Control, and the Athlete or other Person can establish that such delays are not
                     attributable to the Athlete or other Person, IPF or the DHP, if applicable, may start the
                     period of Ineligibility at an earlier date commencing as early as the date of Sample
                     collection or the date on which another anti-doping rule violation last occurred. All
                     competitive results achieved during the period of Ineligibility, including retroactive
                     Ineligibility, shall be Disqualified.57

                     10.13.2       Credit for Provisional Suspension or Period of Ineligibility Served

                                   10.13.2.1      If a Provisional Suspension is respected by the Athlete or other
                                                  Person, then the Athlete or other Person shall receive a credit for
                                                  such period of Provisional Suspension against any period of
                                                  Ineligibility which may ultimately be imposed. If the Athlete or other
                                                  Person does not respect a Provisional Suspension, then the Athlete
                                                  or other Person shall receive no credit for any period of Provisional
                                                  Suspension served. If a period of Ineligibility is served pursuant to a
                                                  decision that is subsequently appealed, then the Athlete or other
                                                  Person shall receive a credit for such period of Ineligibility served


55   [Comment to Article 10.10: Nothing in these Anti-Doping Rules precludes clean Athletes or other Persons who have been damaged
     by the actions of a Person who has committed an anti-doping rule violation from pursuing any right which they would otherwise
     have to seek damages from such Person.]

56   [Comment to Article 10.11: This Article is not intended to impose an affirmative duty on IPF to take any action to collect forfeited
     prize money. If IPF elects not to take any action to collect forfeited prize money, it may assign its right to recover such money to
     the Athlete(s) who should have otherwise received the money. “Reasonable measures to allocate and distribute this prize money”
     could include using collected forfeited prize money as agreed upon by IPF and its Athletes.]
57   [Comment to Article 10.13.1: In cases of anti-doping rule violations other than under Article 2.1, the time required for an Anti-
     Doping Organization to discover and develop facts sufficient to establish an anti-doping rule violation may be lengthy, particularly
     where the Athlete or other Person has taken affirmative action to avoid detection. In these circumstances, the flexibility provided
     in this Article to start the sanction at an earlier date should not be used.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                         Page 39 of 66
                                                   against any period of Ineligibility which may ultimately be imposed
                                                   on appeal.

                                   10.13.2.2       If an Athlete or other Person voluntarily accepts a Provisional
                                                   Suspension in writing from IPF and thereafter respects the
                                                   Provisional Suspension, the Athlete or other Person shall receive a
                                                   credit for such period of voluntary Provisional Suspension against
                                                   any period of Ineligibility which may ultimately be imposed. A copy
                                                   of the Athlete or other Person’s voluntary acceptance of a
                                                   Provisional Suspension shall be provided promptly to each party
                                                   entitled to receive notice of an asserted anti-doping rule violation
                                                   under Article 14.1.58

                                   10.13.2.3       No credit against a period of Ineligibility shall be given for any time
                                                   period before the effective date of the Provisional Suspension or
                                                   voluntary Provisional Suspension regardless of whether the Athlete
                                                   elected not to compete or was suspended by a team.


           10.14      Status During Ineligibility or Provisional Suspension

                      10.14.1      Prohibition Against Participation During Ineligibility or Provisional Suspension

                      No Athlete or other Person who has been declared Ineligible or is subject to a Provisional
                      Suspension may, during a period of Ineligibility or Provisional Suspension, participate in
                      any capacity in a Competition or activity (other than authorized anti-doping Education or
                      rehabilitation programs) authorized or organized by any Signatory, Signatory's member
                      organization, or a club or other member organization of a Signatory’s member organization,
                      or in Competitions authorized or organized by any professional league or any international-
                      or national-level Event organization or any elite or national-level sporting activity funded by
                      a governmental agency.

                      An Athlete or other Person subject to a period of Ineligibility longer than four (4) years may,
                      after completing four (4) years of the period of Ineligibility, participate as an Athlete in local
                      sport events not sanctioned or otherwise under the authority of a Code Signatory or
                      member of a Code Signatory, but only so long as the local sport event is not at a level that
                      could otherwise qualify such Athlete or other Person directly or indirectly to compete in (or
                      accumulate points toward) a national championship or International Event, and does not
                      involve the Athlete or other Person working in any capacity with Protected Persons.

                      An Athlete or other Person subject to a period of Ineligibility shall remain subject to Testing
                      and any requirement by IPF to provide whereabouts information.59

58   [Comment to Article 10.13.2.2: An Athlete’s voluntary acceptance of a Provisional Suspension is not an admission by the Athlete
     and shall not be used in any way to draw an adverse inference against the Athlete.]

59   [Comment to Article 10.14.1: For example, subject to Article 10.14.2 below, Ineligible Athletes cannot participate in a training
     camp, exhibition or practice organized by their National Federation or a club which is a member of that National Federation or
     which is funded by a governmental agency. Further, an Ineligible Athlete may not compete in a non-Signatory professional league
     (e.g., the National Hockey League, the National Basketball Association, etc.), Events organized by a non-Signatory International
     Event organization or a non-Signatory national-level Event organization without triggering the Consequences set forth in
     Article 10.14.3. The term “activity” also includes, for example, administrative activities, such as serving as an official, director,
     officer, employee, or volunteer of the organization described in this Article. Ineligibility imposed in one sport shall also be
     recognized by other sports (see Article 15.1, Automatic Binding Effect of Decisions). An Athlete or other Person serving a period
     of Ineligibility is prohibited from coaching or serving as an Athlete Support Person in any other capacity at any time during the



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                         Page 40 of 66
                     10.14.2       Return to Training

                     As an exception to Article 10.14.1, an Athlete may return to train with a team or to use the
                     facilities of a club or other member organization of IPF’s or other Signatory’s member
                     organization during the shorter of: (1) the last two months of the Athlete’s period of
                     Ineligibility, or (2) the last one-quarter of the period of Ineligibility imposed.60

                     10.14.3       Violation of the Prohibition of Participation During Ineligibility or Provisional
                                   Suspension

                       Where an Athlete or other Person who has been declared Ineligible violates the prohibition
                       against participation during Ineligibility described in Article 10.14.1, the results of such
                       participation shall be Disqualified and a new period of Ineligibility equal in length to the original
                       period of Ineligibility shall be added to the end of the original period of Ineligibility. The new
                       period of Ineligibility, including a reprimand and no period of Ineligibility, may be adjusted
                       based on the Athlete or other Person’s degree of Fault and other circumstances of the case.
                       The determination of whether an Athlete or other Person has violated the prohibition against
                       participation, and whether an adjustment is appropriate, shall be made by the Anti-Doping
                       Organization whose Results Management led to the imposition of the initial period of
                       Ineligibility. This decision may be appealed under Article 13.

                       An Athlete or other Person who violates the prohibition against participation during a
                       Provisional Suspension described in Article 10.14.1 shall receive no credit for any period
                       of Provisional Suspension served and the results of such participation shall be
                       Disqualified.

                       Where an Athlete Support Person or other Person assists a Person in violating the
                       prohibition against participation during Ineligibility or a Provisional Suspension, IPF shall
                       impose sanctions for a violation of Article 2.9 for such assistance.

                     10.14.4       Withholding of Financial Support during Ineligibility

                     In addition, for any anti-doping rule violation not involving a reduced sanction as described in
                     Article 10.5 or 10.6, some or all sport-related financial support or other sport-related benefits
                     received by such Person will be withheld by IPF and its National Federations.


           10.15     Automatic Publication of Sanction

           A mandatory part of each sanction shall include automatic publication, as provided in Article 14.3.

ARTICLE 11           CONSEQUENCES TO TEAMS


           Article 11. Intentionally left blank.



     period of Ineligibility, and doing so could also result in a violation of Article 2.10 by another Athlete. Any performance standard
     accomplished during a period of Ineligibility shall not be recognized by IPF or its National Federations for any purpose.]

60   [Comment to Article 10.14.2: In many Team Sports and some individual sports (e.g., ski jumping and gymnastics), Athletes cannot
     effectively train on their own so as to be ready to compete at the end of the Athlete’s period of Ineligibility. During the training
     period described in this Article, an Ineligible Athlete may not compete or engage in any activity described in Article 10.14.1 other
     than training.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                         Page 41 of 66
ARTICLE 12      SANCTIONS BY IPF AGAINST OTHER SPORTING BODIES

When IPF becomes aware that a National Federation or any other sporting body over which it has authority
has failed to comply with, implement, uphold, and enforce these Anti-Doping Rules within that organization’s
or body’s area of competence, IPF has the authority and may take the following additional disciplinary
actions.

For disciplinary actions outlined in Articles 12.1 and 12.2, before being sanctioned by IPF, the National
Federation or sporting body, as relevant, will be notified of the alleged non-compliance, given an opportunity
to provide an explanation regarding the alleged non-compliance, and will be given 21 days to remedy the
alleged non-compliance to the IPF’s satisfaction. This deadline may be extended at the sole discretion of
the IPF. If the IPF considers that the National Federation or sporting body has not remedied its breach of
Article 18 by the expiry of the designated deadline, IPF will formally charge the National Federation or the
sporting body with a failure to comply with, implement, uphold, and enforce the IPF ADR, and impose
consequences that are commensurate to this breach of the IPF ADR. These may include:


        12.1    Fine, suspend and exclude the National Federation or sporting body, or some group of
                members of that organization or body, from specified future Events or all Events conducted
                within a specified period of time. Where IPF has charged a National Federation or some
                group of members of that organization for breaching Article 18 and the National Federation
                or some group of its members contest the charge and sanction proposed by the IPF, the
                matter will be remitted to the DHP for adjudication, or, on consent of the National
                Federation or the sporting body, or the group of member of that organization or body and
                the IPF, may be heard directly before the CAS for a single hearing in accordance with the
                relevant and applicable CAS procedural rules


        12.2    Fine, suspend and exclude all of the National Federation, or some group of members of
                that organization or body, from their current position or office within the IPF and/or prevent
                them from holding any position or office within the IPF whilst the organization, body or
                National Federation is excluded or suspended pursuant to Article 12.1. Where IPF has
                charged a National Federation or other sporting body or some group of members of that
                organization for breaching Article 18 and the National Federation or some group of its
                members contest the charge and sanction proposed by the IPF, the matter will be remitted
                to the DHP for adjudication. or, on consent of the National Federation or the group of
                members of that organization or body and IPF, may be remitted directly to CAS for a single
                hearing in accordance with the relevant and applicable CAS procedural rules.

        12.3    In addition to any fine, exclusion or suspension imposed in accordance with Articles 12.1
                or 12.2, IPF may take additional disciplinary actions with respect to that organization’s or
                body’s recognition, the eligibility of their members to participate in IPF’s activities, and/or
                fine that organization or body based on the following:

                12.3.1     Where an Athlete or other Person commits an anti-doping rule violation arising
                           out of IPF Testing, IPF may, in its discretion and subject to the principle of
                           proportionality, elect to (a) recover from the Athlete or other Person’s National
                           Federation costs associated with the anti-doping rule violation, (including but
                           not limited to costs associated with Sample analysis, production of reports,
                           Results Management and attorney’s fees), regardless of the period of Ineligibility
                           imposed and/or (b) fine the Athlete or other Person’s National Federation in an
                           amount up to 2500 Euros, but only in cases where the maximum period of
                           Ineligibility otherwise applicable has already been imposed against the Athlete
                           or other Person.

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                   Page 42 of 66
                     12.3.2       Four (4) or more violations of these Anti-Doping Rules (other than violations
                                  involving Article 2.4) are committed by Athletes or other Persons affiliated with
                                  that organization or body during a twelve (12) month period. In such event: (a)
                                  all or some group of members of that organization or body may be banned from
                                  participation in any IPF activities for a period of up to two (2) years and/or (b)
                                  that organization or body may be fined in an amount up to 10,000 Euros.

                     12.3.3       Four (4) or more violations of these Anti-Doping Rules (other than violations
                                  involving Article 2.4) are committed in addition to the violations described in
                                  Article 12.3.2 by Athletes or other Persons affiliated with that organization or
                                  body during a twelve (12) month period. In such event, that organization or body
                                  may be suspended for a period of up to four (4) years.



                     12.3.4       More than one Athlete or other Person affiliated with that organization or body
                                  commits an anti-doping rule violation during an International Event. In such
                                  event, that organization or body may be fined in an amount up to 10,000 Euros.

                     12.3.5       That organization or body has failed to make diligent efforts to keep IPF informed
                                  about an Athlete's whereabouts after receiving a request for that information
                                  from IPF. In such event, that organization or body may be fined in an amount up
                                  to 2500 Euros per Athlete, in addition to reimbursement of all of the IPF costs
                                  incurred in Testing that organization’s or body’s Athletes.

           12.3      Withhold some or all funding or other financial and non-financial support to that
                     organization or body.

           12.4      Oblige that organization or body to reimburse IPF for all costs (including but not limited to
                     laboratory fees, hearing expenses and travel) related to a violation of these Anti-Doping
                     Rules committed by an Athlete or other Person affiliated with that organization or body.

ARTICLE 13           RESULTS MANAGEMENT: APPEALS 61

           13.1      Decisions Subject to Appeal

           Decisions made under the Code or these Anti-Doping Rules may be appealed as set forth below
           in Articles 13.2 through 13.7 or as otherwise provided in these Anti-Doping Rules, the Code or the
           International Standards. Such decisions shall remain in effect while under appeal unless the
           appellate body orders otherwise.

                     13.1.1       Scope of Review Not Limited

                     The scope of review on appeal includes all issues relevant to the matter and is expressly
                     not limited to the issues or scope of review before the initial decision maker. Any party to
                     the appeal may submit evidence, legal arguments and claims that were not raised in the


61   [Comment to Article 13: The object of the Code is to have anti-doping matters resolved through fair and transparent internal
     processes with a final appeal. Anti-doping decisions by Anti-Doping Organizations are made transparent in Article 14. Specified
     Persons and organizations, including WADA, are then given the opportunity to appeal those decisions. Note that the definition of
     interested Persons and organizations with a right to appeal under Article 13 does not include Athletes, or their federations, who
     might benefit from having another competitor Disqualified.]



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                      Page 43 of 66
                     first instance hearing so long as they arise from the same cause of action or same general
                     facts or circumstances raised or addressed in the first instance hearing. 62

                     13.1.2       CAS Shall Not Defer to the Findings Being Appealed

                     In making its decision, CAS shall not give deference to the discretion exercised by the body
                     whose decision is being appealed.63

                     13.1.3       WADA Not Required to Exhaust Internal Remedies

                     Where WADA has a right to appeal under Article 13 and no other party has appealed a
                     final decision within IPF’s process, WADA may appeal such decision directly to CAS
                     without having to exhaust other remedies in IPF’s process.64

           13.2      Appeals from Decisions Regarding Anti-Doping Rule Violations, Consequences,
                     Provisional Suspensions, Implementation of Decisions and Authority

           A decision that an anti-doping rule violation was committed, a decision imposing Consequences or
           not imposing Consequences for an anti-doping rule violation, or a decision that no anti-doping rule
           violation was committed; a decision that an anti-doping rule violation proceeding cannot go forward
           for procedural reasons (including, for example, prescription); a decision by WADA not to grant an
           exception to the six (6) months notice requirement for a retired Athlete to return to competition
           under Article 5.6.1; a decision by WADA assigning Results Management under Article 7.1 of the
           Code; a decision by IPF not to bring forward an Adverse Analytical Finding or an Atypical Finding
           as an anti-doping rule violation, or a decision not to go forward with an anti-doping rule violation
           after an investigation in accordance with the International Standard for Results Management; a
           decision to impose, or lift, a Provisional Suspension as a result of a Provisional Hearing; IPF’s
           failure to comply with Article 7.4; a decision that IPF lacks authority to rule on an alleged anti-doping
           rule violation or its Consequences; a decision to suspend, or not suspend, Consequences or to
           reinstate, or not reinstate, Consequences under Article 10.7.1; failure to comply with Articles 7.1.4
           and 7.1.5 of the Code; failure to comply with Article 10.8.1; a decision under Article 10.14.3; a
           decision by IPF not to implement another Anti-Doping Organization’s decision under Article 15; and
           a decision under Article 27.3 of the Code may be appealed exclusively as provided in this Article
           13.2.

                     13.2.1       Appeals Involving International-Level Athletes or International Events

                     In cases arising from participation in an International Event or in cases involving
                     International-Level Athletes, the decision may be appealed exclusively to CAS.65

                     13.2.2       Appeals Involving Other Athletes or Other Persons


62   [Comment to Article 13.1.1: The revised language is not intended to make a substantive change to the 2015 Code, but rather for
     clarification. For example, where an Athlete was charged in the first instance hearing only with Tampering but the same conduct
     could also constitute Complicity, an appealing party could pursue both Tampering and Complicity charges against the Athlete in
     the appeal.]

63   [Comment to Article 13.1.2: CAS proceedings are de novo. Prior proceedings do not limit the evidence or carry weight in the
     hearing before CAS.]

64   [Comment to Article 13.1.3: Where a decision has been rendered before the final stage of IPF’s process (for example, a first
     hearing) and no party elects to appeal that decision to the next level of IPF’s process (e.g., the Managing Board), then WADA may
     bypass the remaining steps in IPF’s internal process and appeal directly to CAS.]

65   [Comment to Article 13.2.1: CAS decisions are final and binding except for any review required by law applicable to the annulment
     or enforcement of arbitral awards.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                      Page 44 of 66
                In cases where Article 13.2.1 is not applicable, the decision may be appealed to an
                appellate body, in accordance with rules adopted by the National Anti-Doping Organization
                having authority over the Athlete or other Person.

                The rules for such appeal shall respect the following principles: a timely hearing; a fair,
                impartial, Operationally Independent and Institutionally Independent hearing panel; the
                right to be represented by counsel at the Person's own expense; and a timely, written,
                reasoned decision.

                If no such body as described above is in place and available at the time of the appeal, the
                decision may be appealed to CAS in accordance with the applicable procedural rules.

                13.2.3    Persons Entitled to Appeal

                          13.2.3.1 Appeals Involving International-Level Athletes or International Events

                          In cases under Article 13.2.1, the following parties shall have the right to appeal
                          to CAS: (a) the Athlete or other Person who is the subject of the decision being
                          appealed; (b) the other party to the case in which the decision was rendered; (c)
                          IPF; (d) the National Anti-Doping Organization of the Person’s country of
                          residence or countries where the Person is a national or license holder; (e) the
                          International Olympic Committee or International Paralympic Committee, as
                          applicable, where the decision may have an effect in relation to the Olympic
                          Games or Paralympic Games, including decisions affecting eligibility for the
                          Olympic Games or Paralympic Games; and (f) WADA.

                          13.2.3.2 Appeals Involving Other Athletes or Other Persons

                          In cases under Article 13.2.2, the parties having the right to appeal to the
                          national-level appeal body shall be as provided in the National Anti-Doping
                          Organization's rules but, at a minimum, shall include the following parties: (a) the
                          Athlete or other Person who is the subject of the decision being appealed; (b) the
                          other party to the case in which the decision was rendered; (c) IPF; (d) the
                          National Anti-Doping Organization of the Person’s country of residence or
                          countries where the Person is a national or license holder; (e) the International
                          Olympic Committee or International Paralympic Committee, as applicable,
                          where the decision may have an effect in relation to the Olympic Games or
                          Paralympic Games, including decisions affecting eligibility for the Olympic
                          Games or Paralympic Games; and (f) WADA.

                          For cases under Article 13.2.2, WADA, the International Olympic Committee, the
                          International Paralympic Committee, and IPF shall also have the right to appeal
                          to CAS with respect to the decision of the national-level appeal body.

                          Any party filing an appeal shall be entitled to assistance from CAS to obtain all
                          relevant information from the Anti-Doping Organization whose decision is being
                          appealed and the information shall be provided if CAS so directs.

                          13.2.3.3 Duty to Notify

                          All parties to any CAS appeal must ensure that WADA and all other parties with
                          a right to appeal have been given timely notice of the appeal.



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                  Page 45 of 66
                                   13.2.3.4 Appeal from Imposition of Provisional Suspension

                                   Notwithstanding any other provision herein, the only Person who may appeal
                                   from the imposition of a Provisional Suspension is the Athlete or other Person
                                   upon whom the Provisional Suspension is imposed.

                                   13.2.3.5 Appeal from Decisions under Article 12

                                   Decisions by IPF pursuant to Article 12 may be appealed exclusively to CAS by
                                   the National Federation or other body.

                      13.2.4       Cross Appeals and other Subsequent Appeals Allowed

                      Cross appeals and other subsequent appeals by any respondent named in cases brought to
                      CAS under the Code are specifically permitted. Any party with a right to appeal under this
                      Article 13 must file a cross appeal or subsequent appeal at the latest with the party’s answer.66

           13.3       Failure to Render a Timely Decision

           13.3.1 Where, in a particular case, IPF fails to render a decision with respect to whether an anti-
           doping rule violation was committed within a reasonable deadline set by WADA, WADA may elect
           to appeal directly to CAS as if IPF had rendered a decision finding no anti-doping rule violation. If
           the CAS hearing panel determines that an anti-doping rule violation was committed and that WADA
           acted reasonably in electing to appeal directly to CAS, then WADA’s costs and attorney fees in
           prosecuting the appeal shall be reimbursed to WADA by IPF.67


           13.4       Appeals Relating to TUEs

           TUE decisions may be appealed exclusively as provided in Article 4.4.

           13.5       Notification of Appeal Decisions

           IPF shall promptly provide the appeal decision to the Athlete or other Person and to the other Anti-
           Doping Organizations that would have been entitled to appeal under Article 13.2.3 as provided
           under Article 14.2.

           13.6       Time for Filing Appeals68

                      13.6.1       Appeals to CAS

                      The time to file an appeal to CAS shall be twenty-one (21) days from the date of receipt of
                      the decision by the appealing party. The above notwithstanding, the following shall apply

66   [Comment to Article 13.2.4: This provision is necessary because since 2011, CAS rules no longer permit an Athlete the right to
     cross appeal when an Anti-Doping Organization appeals a decision after the Athlete’s time for appeal has expired. This provision
     permits a full hearing for all parties.]

67   [Comment to Article 13.3: Given the different circumstances of each anti-doping rule violation investigation, Results Management
     and hearing process, it is not feasible to establish a fixed time period for IPF to render a decision before WADA may intervene by
     appealing directly to CAS. Before taking such action, however, WADA will consult with IPF and give IPF an opportunity to explain
     why it has not yet rendered a decision.]

68   [Comment to Article 13.6: Whether governed by CAS rules or these Anti-Doping Rules, a party’s deadline to appeal does not
     begin running until receipt of the decision. For that reason, there can be no expiration of a party's right to appeal if the party has
     not received the decision.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                          Page 46 of 66
                in connection with appeals filed by a party entitled to appeal but which was not a party to
                the proceedings that led to the decision being appealed:

                (a) Within fifteen (15) days from the notice of the decision, such party/ies shall have the
                    right to request a copy of the full case file pertaining to the decision from the Anti-
                    Doping Organization that had Results Management authority;

                (b) If such a request is made within the fifteen (15) day period, then the party making such
                    request shall have twenty-one (21) days from receipt of the file to file an appeal to CAS.

                The above notwithstanding, the filing deadline for an appeal filed by WADA shall be the
                later of:

                (a) Twenty-one (21) days after the last day on which any other party having a right to
                    appeal could have appealed, or

                (b) Twenty-one (21) days after WADA’s receipt of the complete file relating to the decision.

                13.6.2    Appeals Under Article 13.2.2

                The time to file an appeal to an independent and impartial body in accordance with rules
                established by the National Anti-Doping Organization shall be indicated by the same rules
                of the National Anti-Doping Organization.

                The above notwithstanding, the filing deadline for an appeal filed by WADA shall be the
                later of:

                (a) Twenty-one (21) days after the last day on which any other party having a right to
                    appeal could have appealed, or

                (b) Twenty-one (21) days after WADA’s receipt of the complete file relating to the decision.

ARTICLE 14      CONFIDENTIALITY AND REPORTING

        14.1    Information Concerning Adverse Analytical Findings, Atypical Findings, and Other
                Asserted Anti-Doping Rule Violations

                14.1.1    Notice of Anti-Doping Rule Violations to Athletes and other Persons

                Notice to Athletes or other Persons of anti-doping rule violations asserted against them
                shall occur as provided under Articles 7 and 14.

                If at any point during Results Management up until the anti-doping rule violation charge,
                IPF decides not to move forward with a matter, it must notify the Athlete or other Person
                by email, (provided that the Athlete or other Person had been already informed of the
                ongoing Results Management).

                Notice shall be emailed to Athletes or other Persons and National Federations and the
                National Federations shall confirm successful receipt of the Athlete or other Person’s
                notification from the IPF.

                14.1.2    Notice of Anti-Doping Rule Violations to National Anti-Doping Organizations and
                          WADA


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                  Page 47 of 66
                Notice of the assertion of an anti-doping rule violation to the Athlete’s or other Person’s
                National Anti-Doping Organization and WADA shall occur by email as provided under
                Articles 7 and 14, simultaneously with the notice to the Athlete or other Person.

                If at any point during Results Management up until the anti-doping rule violation charge,
                IPF decides not to move forward with a matter, it must give notice (with reasons) to the
                Anti-Doping Organizations with a right of appeal under Article 13.2.3.

                14.1.3    Content of an Anti-Doping Rule Violation Notice

                Notification of an anti-doping rule violation shall include: the Athlete's or other Person’s
                name, country, sport and discipline within the sport, the Athlete’s competitive level, whether
                the test was In-Competition or Out-of-Competition, the date of Sample collection, the
                analytical result reported by the laboratory, and other information as required by the
                International Standard for Testing and Investigations and International Standard for
                Results Management.

                Notification of anti-doping rule violations other than under Article 2.1 shall also include the
                rule violated and the basis of the asserted violation.

                14.1.4    Status Reports

                Except with respect to investigations which have not resulted in a notice of an anti-doping
                rule violation pursuant to Article 14.1.1, the Athlete’s or other Person’s National Anti-Doping
                Organization and WADA shall be regularly updated on the status and findings of any review
                or proceedings conducted pursuant to Article 7, 8 or 13 and shall be provided with a prompt
                written reasoned explanation or decision explaining the resolution of the matter.

                14.1.5    Confidentiality

                The recipient organizations shall not disclose this information beyond those Persons with
                a need to know (which would include the appropriate personnel at the applicable National
                Olympic Committee, National Federation until IPF has made Public Disclosure as permitted
                by Article 14.3.

                14.1.6    Protection of Confidential Information by an Employee or Agent of the IPF

                IPF shall ensure that information concerning Adverse Analytical Findings, Atypical
                Findings, and other asserted anti-doping rule violations remains confidential until such
                information is Publicly Disclosed in accordance with Article 14.3. IPF shall ensure that its
                employees (whether permanent or otherwise), contractors, agents, consultants, and
                Delegated Third Parties are subject to fully enforceable contractual duty of confidentiality
                and to fully enforceable procedures for the investigation and disciplining of improper and/or
                unauthorized disclosure of such confidential information.

        14.2    Notice of Anti-Doping Rule Violation or violations of Ineligibility or Provisional
                Suspension Decisions and Request for Files

                14.2.1    Anti-doping rule violation decisions or decisions related to violations of
                          Ineligibility or Provisional Suspension rendered pursuant to Article 7.6, 8.2, 10.5,
                          10.6, 10.7, 10.14.3 or 13.5 shall include the full reasons for the decision,
                          including, if applicable, a justification for why the maximum potential sanction
                          was not imposed. Where the decision is not in English or French, IPF shall



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                   Page 48 of 66
                                 provide an English or French summary of the decision and the supporting
                                 reasons.

                    14.2.2       An Anti-Doping Organization having a right to appeal a decision received
                                 pursuant to Article 14.2.1 may, within fifteen (15) days of receipt, request a copy
                                 of the full case file pertaining to the decision.

          14.3      Public Disclosure

                    14.3.1       After notice has been provided to the Athlete or other Person in accordance with
                                 the International Standard for Results Management, and to the applicable Anti-
                                 Doping Organizations in accordance with Article 14.1.2, the identity of any
                                 Athlete or other Person who is notified of a potential anti-doping rule violation,
                                 the Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method and the nature of the violation
                                 involved, and whether the Athlete or other Person is subject to a Provisional
                                 Suspension may be Publicly Disclosed by IPF.

                    14.3.2       No later than twenty (20) days after it has been determined in an appellate
                                 decision under Article 13.2.1 or 13.2.2, or such appeal has been waived, or a
                                 hearing in accordance with Article 8 has been waived, or the assertion of an anti-
                                 doping rule violation has not otherwise been timely challenged, or the matter has
                                 been resolved under Article 10.8, or a new period of Ineligibility, or reprimand,
                                 has been imposed under Article 10.14.3, IPF must Publicly Disclose the
                                 disposition of the anti-doping matter, including the sport, the anti-doping rule
                                 violated, the name of the Athlete or other Person committing the violation, the
                                 Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method involved (if any) and the
                                 Consequences imposed. IPF must also Publicly Disclose within twenty (20) days
                                 the results of appellate decisions concerning anti-doping rule violations,
                                 including the information described above.69

                    14.3.3       After an anti-doping rule violation has been determined to have been committed
                                 in an appellate decision under Article 13.2.1 or 13.2.2 or such appeal has been
                                 waived, or in a hearing in accordance with Article 8 or where such hearing has
                                 been waived, or the assertion of an anti-doping rule violation has not otherwise
                                 been timely challenged, or the matter has been resolved under Article 10.8, IPF
                                 may make public such determination or decision and may comment publicly on
                                 the matter.

                    14.3.4       In any case where it is determined, after a hearing or appeal, that the Athlete or
                                 other Person did not commit an anti-doping rule violation, the fact that the
                                 decision has been appealed may be Publicly Disclosed. However, the decision
                                 itself and the underlying facts may not be Publicly Disclosed except with the
                                 consent of the Athlete or other Person who is the subject of the decision. IPF
                                 shall use reasonable efforts to obtain such consent, and if consent is obtained,
                                 shall Publicly Disclose the decision in its entirety or in such redacted form as the
                                 Athlete or other Person may approve.

                    14.3.5       Publication shall be accomplished at a minimum by placing the required
                                 information on the IPF’s website and leaving the information up for the longer of


69   [Comment to Article 14.3.2: Where Public Disclosure as required by Article 14.3.2 would result in a breach of other applicable
     laws, IPF’s failure to make the Public Disclosure will not result in a determination of non-compliance with Code as set forth in
     Article 4.1 of the International Standard for the Protection of Privacy and Personal Information.]



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                     Page 49 of 66
                          one (1) month or the duration of any period of Ineligibility. It will be removed
                          immediately after the expiry of the indicated time periods.

                14.3.6    Except as provided in Articles 14.3.1 and 14.3.3, no Anti-Doping Organization,
                          National Federation, or WADA-accredited laboratory, or any official of any such
                          body, shall publicly comment on the specific facts of any pending case (as
                          opposed to general description of process and science) except in response to
                          public comments attributed to, or based on information provided by, the Athlete,
                          other Person or their entourage or other representatives.

                14.3.7    The mandatory Public Disclosure required in Article 14.3.2 shall not be required
                          where the Athlete or other Person who has been found to have committed an
                          anti-doping rule violation is a Minor, Protected Person or Recreational Athlete.
                          Any optional Public Disclosure in a case involving a Minor, Protected Person or
                          Recreational Athlete shall be proportionate to the facts and circumstances of the
                          case.

        14.4    Statistical Reporting

        IPF shall, at least annually, publish publicly a general statistical report of its Doping Control
        activities, with a copy provided to WADA. IPF may also publish reports showing the name of each
        Athlete tested and the date of each Testing.

        14.5    Doping Control Information Database and Monitoring of Compliance

        To enable WADA to perform its compliance monitoring role and to ensure the effective use of
        resources and sharing of applicable Doping Control information among Anti-Doping Organizations,
        IPF shall report to WADA through ADAMS Doping Control-related information, including, in
        particular:
                 (a)    Athlete Biological Passport data for International-Level Athletes and National-
                        Level Athletes,
                 (b)    Whereabouts information for Athletes including those in Registered Testing Pools,
                 (c)    TUE decisions, and
                 (d)    Results Management decisions,

        as required under the applicable International Standard(s).

                14.5.1    To facilitate coordinated test distribution planning, avoid unnecessary duplication
                          in Testing by various Anti-Doping Organizations, and to ensure that Athlete
                          Biological Passport profiles are updated, IPF shall report all In-Competition and
                          Out-of-Competition tests to WADA by entering the Doping Control forms into
                          ADAMS in accordance with the requirements and timelines contained in the
                          International Standard for Testing and Investigations.

                14.5.2    To facilitate WADA’s oversight and appeal rights for TUEs, IPF shall report all
                          TUE applications, decisions and supporting documentation using ADAMS in
                          accordance with the requirements and timelines contained in the International
                          Standard for Therapeutic Use Exemptions.

                14.5.3    To facilitate WADA’s oversight and appeal rights for Results Management, IPF
                          shall report the following information into ADAMS in accordance with the
                          requirements and timelines outlined in the International Standard for Results
                          Management: (a) notifications of anti-doping rule violations and related decisions

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                 Page 50 of 66
                          for Adverse Analytical Findings; (b) notifications and related decisions for other
                          anti-doping rule violations that are not Adverse Analytical Findings; (c)
                          whereabouts failures; and (d) any decision imposing, lifting or reinstating a
                          Provisional Suspension.

                14.5.4    The information described in this Article will be made accessible, where
                          appropriate and in accordance with the applicable rules, to the Athlete, the
                          Athlete’s National Anti-Doping Organization, and any other Anti-Doping
                          Organizations with Testing authority over the Athlete.

        14.6    Data Privacy

                14.6.1    IPF may collect, store, process or disclose personal information relating to
                          Athletes and other Persons where necessary and appropriate to conduct its Anti-
                          Doping Activities under the Code, the International Standards (including
                          specifically the International Standard for the Protection of Privacy and Personal
                          Information), these Anti-Doping Rules, and in compliance with applicable law.

                14.6.2    Without limiting the foregoing, IPF shall:
                          (a) Only process personal information in accordance with a valid legal ground;
                          (b) Notify any Participant or Person subject to these Anti-Doping Rules, in a
                              manner and form that complies with applicable laws and the International
                              Standard for the Protection of Privacy and Personal Information, that their
                              personal information may be processed by IPF and other Persons for the
                              purpose of the implementation of these Anti-Doping Rules;
                          (c) Ensure that any third-party agents (including any Delegated Third Party) with
                              whom IPF shares the personal information of any Participant or Person is
                              subject to appropriate technical and contractual controls to protect the
                              confidentiality and privacy of such information.

ARTICLE 15      IMPLEMENTATION OF DECISIONS

        15.1    Automatic Binding Effect of Decisions by Signatory Anti-Doping Organizations

                15.1.1    A decision of an anti-doping rule violation made by a Signatory Anti-Doping
                          Organization, an appellate body (Article 13.2.2 of the Code) or CAS shall, after
                          the parties to the proceeding are notified, automatically be binding beyond the
                          parties to the proceeding upon IPF and its National Federations, as well as every
                          Signatory in every sport with the effects described below:

                          15.1.1.1 A decision by any of the above-described bodies imposing a
                                   Provisional Suspension (after a Provisional Hearing has occurred or
                                   the Athlete or other Person has either accepted the Provisional
                                   Suspension or has waived the right to a Provisional Hearing,
                                   expedited hearing or expedited appeal offered in accordance with
                                   Article 7.4.3) automatically prohibits the Athlete or other Person from
                                   participation (as described in Article 10.14.1) in all sports within the
                                   authority of any Signatory during the Provisional Suspension.

                          15.1.1.2 A decision by any of the above-described bodies imposing a period of
                                   Ineligibility (after a hearing has occurred or been waived)
                                   automatically prohibits the Athlete or other Person from participation


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                Page 51 of 66
                                               (as described in Article 10.14.1) in all sports within the authority of any
                                               Signatory for the period of Ineligibility.

                                  15.1.1.3 A decision by any of the above-described bodies accepting an anti-
                                           doping rule violation automatically binds all Signatories.

                                  15.1.1.4 A decision by any of the above-described bodies to Disqualify results
                                           under Article 10.10 for a specified period automatically Disqualifies all
                                           results obtained within the authority of any Signatory during the
                                           specified period.

                     15.1.2       IPF and its National Federations shall recognize and implement a decision and
                                  its effects as required by Article 15.1.1, without any further action required, on
                                  the earlier of the date IPF receives actual notice of the decision or the date the
                                  decision is placed into ADAMS.

                     15.1.3       A decision by an Anti-Doping Organization, a national appellate body or CAS to
                                  suspend, or lift, Consequences shall be binding upon IPF and its National
                                  Federations without any further action required, on the earlier of the date IPF
                                  receives actual notice of the decision or the date the decision is placed into
                                  ADAMS.

                     15.1.4       Notwithstanding any provision in Article 15.1.1, however, a decision of an anti-
                                  doping rule violation by a Major Event Organization made in an expedited
                                  process during an Event shall not be binding on IPF or its National Federations
                                  unless the rules of the Major Event Organization provide the Athlete or other
                                  Person with an opportunity to an appeal under non-expedited procedures.70

           15.2      Implementation of Other Decisions by Anti-Doping Organizations

           IPF and its National Federations may decide to implement other anti-doping decisions rendered by
           Anti-Doping Organizations not described in Article 15.1.1 above, such as a Provisional Suspension
           prior to a Provisional Hearing or acceptance by the Athlete or other Person.71

           15.3      Implementation of Decisions by Body that is not a Signatory




70   [Comment to Article 15.1.4: By way of example, where the rules of the Major Event Organization give the Athlete or other Person
     the option of choosing an expedited CAS appeal or a CAS appeal under normal CAS procedure, the final decision or adjudication
     by the Major Event Organization is binding on other Signatories regardless of whether the Athlete or other Person chooses the
     expedited appeal option.]

71   [Comment to Articles 15.1 and 15.2: Anti-Doping Organization decisions under Article 15.1 are implemented automatically by other
     Signatories without the requirement of any decision or further action on the Signatories’ part. For example, when a National Anti-
     Doping Organization decides to Provisionally Suspend an Athlete, that decision is given automatic effect at the International
     Federation level. To be clear, the “decision” is the one made by the National Anti-Doping Organization, there is not a separate
     decision to be made by the International Federation. Thus, any claim by the Athlete that the Provisional Suspension was improperly
     imposed can only be asserted against the National Anti-Doping Organization. Implementation of Anti-Doping Organizations’
     decisions under Article 15.2 is subject to each Signatory’s discretion. A Signatory’s implementation of a decision under Article
     15.1 or Article 15.2 is not appealable separately from any appeal of the underlying decision. The extent of recognition of TUE
     decisions of other Anti-Doping Organizations shall be determined by Article 4.4 and the International Standard for Therapeutic
     Use Exemptions.]


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                       Page 52 of 66
           An anti-doping decision by a body that is not a Signatory to the Code shall be implemented by IPF
           and its National Federations, if IPF finds that the decision purports to be within the authority of that
           body and the anti-doping rules of that body are otherwise consistent with the Code.72

ARTICLE 16            STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS

No anti-doping rule violation proceeding may be commenced against an Athlete or other Person unless he
or she has been notified of the anti-doping rule violation as provided in Article 7, or notification has been
reasonably attempted, within ten (10) years from the date the violation is asserted to have occurred.

ARTICLE 17            EDUCATION

IPF shall plan, implement, evaluate and promote Education in line with the requirements of Article 18.2 of
the Code and the International Standard for Education.

IPF may decide to request that Athletes complete Educational activities before and/or during their
participation in select Events (e.g: Youth World Championships) as a condition of such participation. The
list of Events for which Athletes will be required to complete Educational activities as a condition of
participation will be published on IPF’s website.

Failure by the Athlete to complete Educational activities as requested by IPF may result in the imposition
of sanction under IPF's disciplinary rules, unless the Athlete provides to IPF a justification for such failure,
which shall be assessed by IPF on a case by case basis.


ARTICLE 18            ADDITIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF NATIONAL FEDERATIONS

           18.1       All National Federations and their members shall comply with the Code, International
                      Standards, and these Anti-Doping Rules. All National Federations and other members shall
                      include in their policies, rules and programs the provisions necessary to ensure that IPF
                      may enforce these Anti-Doping Rules (including carrying out Testing) directly in respect of
                      Athletes (including National-Level Athletes) and other Persons under their anti-doping
                      authority as specified in the Introduction to these Anti-Doping Rules (Section “Scope of
                      these Anti-Doping Rules”).

           18.2       Each National Federation shall incorporate these Anti-Doping Rules either directly or by
                      reference into its governing documents, constitution and/or rules as part of the rules of
                      sport that bind their members so that the National Federation may enforce them itself
                      directly in respect of Athletes (including National-Level Athletes) and other Persons under
                      its anti-doping authority.

           18.3       By adopting these Anti-Doping Rules and incorporating them into their governing
                      documents and rules of sport, National Federations shall cooperate with and support IPF
                      in that function. They shall also recognize, abide by and implement the decisions made


72   [Comment to Article 15.3: Where the decision of a body that has not accepted the Code is in some respects Code compliant and
     in other respects not Code compliant, IPF, other Signatories and National Federations should attempt to apply the decision in
     harmony with the principles of the Code. For example, if in a process consistent with the Code a non-Signatory has found an
     Athlete to have committed an anti-doping rule violation on account of the presence of a Prohibited Substance in the Athlete’s body
     but the period of Ineligibility applied is shorter than the period provided for in the Code, then IPF and all other Signatories should
     recognize the finding of an anti-doping rule violation and the Athlete’s National Anti-Doping Organization should conduct a hearing
     consistent with Article 8 to determine whether the longer period of Ineligibility provided in the Code should be imposed. IPF or
     other Signatory’s implementation of a decision, or their decision not to implement a decision under Article 15.3, is appealable
     under Article 13.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                          Page 53 of 66
                pursuant to these Anti-Doping Rules, including the decisions imposing sanctions on
                Persons under their authority.

        18.4    All National Federations shall take appropriate action to enforce compliance with the Code,
                International Standards, and these Anti-Doping Rules by inter alia:

                (i) conducting Testing only under the documented authority of IPF and using their
                    National Anti-Doping Organization or other Sample collection authority to collect
                    Samples in compliance with the International Standard for Testing and Investigations;

                (ii) recognizing the authority of the National Anti-Doping Organization in their country in
                     accordance with Article 5.2.1 of the Code and assisting as appropriate with the National
                     Anti-Doping Organization’s implementation of the national Testing program for their
                     sport;

                (iii) analyzing all Samples collected using a WADA-accredited or WADA-approved
                      laboratory in accordance with Article 6.1; and

                (iv) ensuring that any national level anti-doping rule violation cases discovered by National
                     Federations are adjudicated by an Operationally Independent hearing panel in
                     accordance with Article 8.1 and the International Standard for Results Management.

        18.5    All National Federations shall establish rules requiring all Athletes preparing for or
                participating in a Competition or activity authorized or organized by a National Federation
                or one of its member organizations, and all Athlete Support Personnel associated with such
                Athletes, to agree to be bound by these Anti-Doping Rules and to submit to the Results
                Management authority of the Anti-Doping Organization in conformity with the Code as a
                condition of such participation.

        18.6    All National Federations shall report any information suggesting or relating to an anti-
                doping rule violation to IPF and to their National Anti-Doping Organizations and shall
                cooperate with investigations conducted by any Anti-Doping Organization with authority to
                conduct the investigation.

        18.7    All National Federations shall have disciplinary rules in place to prevent Athlete Support
                Personnel who are Using Prohibited Substances or Prohibited Methods without valid
                justification from providing support to Athletes under the authority of IPF or the National
                Federation.

        18.8    All National Federations shall conduct anti-doping Education in coordination with their
                National Anti-Doping Organizations.

ARTICLE 19      ADDITIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF IPF

        19.1    In addition to the roles and responsibilities described in Article 20.3 of the Code for
                International Federations, IPF shall report to WADA on IPF’s compliance with the Code
                and the International Standards in accordance with Article 24.1.2 of the Code.

        19.2    Subject to applicable law, and in accordance with Article 20.3.4 of the Code, all IPF board
                members, directors, officers, employees and those of appointed Delegated Third Parties
                who are involved in any aspect of Doping Control, must sign a form provided by IPF,
                agreeing to be bound by these Anti-Doping Rules as Persons in conformity with the Code
                for direct and intentional misconduct.



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                 Page 54 of 66
           19.3      Subject to applicable law, and in accordance with Article 20.3.5 of the Code, any IPF
                     employee who is involved in Doping Control (other than authorized anti-doping Education
                     or rehabilitation programs) must sign a statement provided by IPF confirming that they are
                     not Provisionally Suspended or serving a period of Ineligibility and have not been directly
                     or intentionally engaged in conduct within the previous six (6) years which would have
                     constituted a violation of anti-doping rules if Code-compliant rules had been applicable to
                     them.

ARTICLE 20           ADDITIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ATHLETES

           20.1      To be knowledgeable of and comply with these Anti-Doping Rules.

           20.2      To be available for Sample collection at all times.73

           20.3      To take responsibility, in the context of anti-doping, for what they ingest and Use.

           20.4      To inform medical personnel of their obligation not to Use Prohibited Substances and
                     Prohibited Methods and to take responsibility to make sure that any medical treatment
                     received does not violate these Anti-Doping Rules.

           20.5      To disclose to IPF and their National Anti-Doping Organization any decision by a non-
                     Signatory finding that the Athlete committed an anti-doping rule violation within the previous
                     ten (10) years.

           20.6      To cooperate with Anti-Doping Organizations investigating anti-doping rule violations.
                     Failure by any Athlete to cooperate in full with Anti-Doping Organizations investigating anti-
                     doping rule violations may result in a charge of misconduct under IPF's disciplinary rules.

           20.7      To disclose the identity of their Athlete Support Personnel upon request by IPF or a
                     National Federation, or any other Anti-Doping Organization with authority over the Athlete.

           20.8      Offensive conduct towards a Doping Control official or other Person involved in Doping
                     Control by an Athlete, which does not otherwise constitute Tampering, may result in a
                     charge of misconduct under IPF's disciplinary rules.

ARTICLE 21           ADDITIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ATHLETE SUPPORT PERSONNEL

           21.1      To be knowledgeable of and comply with these Anti-Doping Rules.

           21.2      To cooperate with the Athlete Testing program.

           21.3      To use their influence on Athlete values and behavior to foster anti-doping attitudes.

           21.4      To disclose to IPF and their National Anti-Doping Organization any decision by a non-
                     Signatory finding that they committed an anti-doping rule violation within the previous ten
                     (10) years.

           21.5      To cooperate with Anti-Doping Organizations investigating anti-doping rule violations.




73   [Comment to Article 20.2: With due regard to an Athlete’s human rights and privacy, legitimate anti-doping considerations
     sometimes require Sample collection late at night or early in the morning. For example, it is known that some Athletes Use low
     doses of EPO during these hours so that it will be undetectable in the morning.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                    Page 55 of 66
                Failure by any Athlete Support Personnel to cooperate fully with Anti-Doping Organizations
                investigating anti-doping rule violations may result in a charge of misconduct under IPF's
                disciplinary rules.

        21.6    Athlete Support Personnel shall not Use or Possess any Prohibited Substance or
                Prohibited Method without valid justification.
                Any such Use or Possession may result in a charge of misconduct under IPF's disciplinary
                rules.

        21.7    Offensive conduct towards a Doping Control official or other Person involved in Doping
                Control by Athlete Support Personnel, which does not otherwise constitute Tampering, may
                result in a charge of misconduct under IPF's disciplinary rules.

ARTICLE 22      ADDITIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OTHER PERSONS SUBJECT TO
                THESE ANTI-DOPING RULES

        22.1    To be knowledgeable of and comply with these Anti-Doping Rules.

        22.2    To disclose to IPF and their National Anti-Doping Organization any decision by a non-
                Signatory finding that they committed an anti-doping rule violation within the previous ten
                (10) years.

        22.3    To cooperate with Anti-Doping Organizations investigating anti-doping rule violations.

                Failure by any other Person subject to these Anti-Doping Rules to cooperate in full with
                Anti-Doping Organizations investigating anti-doping rule violations may result in a charge
                of misconduct under IPF's disciplinary rules.

        22.4    Not to Use or Possess any Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method without valid
                justification.

        22.5    Offensive conduct towards a Doping Control official or other Person involved in Doping
                Control by a Person, which does not otherwise constitute Tampering, may result in a
                charge of misconduct under IPF's disciplinary rules.

ARTICLE 23      INTERPRETATION OF THE CODE

        23.1    The official text of the Code shall be maintained by WADA and shall be published in English
                and French. In the event of any conflict between the English and French versions, the
                English version shall prevail.

        23.2    The comments annotating various provisions of the Code shall be used to interpret the
                Code.

        23.3    The Code shall be interpreted as an independent and autonomous text and not by
                reference to the existing law or statutes of the Signatories or governments.

        23.4    The headings used for the various Parts and Articles of the Code are for convenience only
                and shall not be deemed part of the substance of the Code or to affect in any way the
                language of the provisions to which they refer.

        23.5    Where the term “days” is used in the Code or an International Standard, it shall mean
                calendar days unless otherwise specified.


IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                Page 56 of 66
        23.6    The Code shall not apply retroactively to matters pending before the date the Code is
                accepted by a Signatory and implemented in its rules. However, pre-Code anti-doping rule
                violations would continue to count as "First violations" or "Second violations" for purposes
                of determining sanctions under Article 10 for subsequent post-Code violations.

        23.7    The Purpose, Scope and Organization of the World Anti-Doping Program and the Code
                and Appendix 1, Definitions, and Appendix 2, Examples of the Application of Article 10,
                shall be considered integral parts of the Code.

ARTICLE 24      FINAL PROVISIONS

        24.1    Where the term “days” is used in these Anti-Doping Rules, it shall mean calendar days
                unless otherwise specified.

        24.2    These Anti-Doping Rules shall be interpreted as an independent and autonomous text and
                not by reference to existing law or statutes.

        24.3    These Anti-Doping Rules have been adopted pursuant to the applicable provisions of the
                Code and the International Standards and shall be interpreted in a manner that is
                consistent with applicable provisions of the Code and the International Standards. The
                Code and the International Standards shall be considered integral parts of these Anti-
                Doping Rules and shall prevail in case of conflict.

        24.4    The Introduction and Appendix 1 shall be considered integral parts of these Anti-Doping
                Rules.

        24.5    The comments annotating various provisions of these Anti-Doping Rules shall be used to
                interpret these Anti-Doping Rules.

        24.6    These Anti-Doping Rules shall enter into force on 1 January 2021 (the “Effective Date”).
                They repeal previous versions of IPF’s Anti-Doping Rules.

        24.7    These Anti-Doping Rules shall not apply retroactively to matters pending before the
                Effective Date. However:

                24.7.1    Anti-doping rule violations taking place prior to the Effective Date count as "first
                          violations" or "second violations" for purposes of determining sanctions under
                          Article 10 for violations taking place after the Effective Date.

                24.7.2    Any anti-doping rule violation case which is pending as of the Effective Date and
                          any anti-doping rule violation case brought after the Effective Date based on an
                          anti-doping rule violation which occurred prior to the Effective Date, shall be
                          governed by the substantive anti-doping rules in effect at the time the alleged
                          anti-doping rule violation occurred, and not by the substantive anti-doping rules
                          set out in these Anti-Doping Rules, unless the panel hearing the case determines
                          the principle of “lex mitior” appropriately applies under the circumstances of the
                          case. For these purposes, the retrospective periods in which prior violations can
                          be considered for purposes of multiple violations under Article 10.9.4 and the
                          statute of limitations set forth in Article 16 are procedural rules, not substantive
                          rules, and should be applied retroactively along with all of the other procedural
                          rules in these Anti-Doping Rules (provided, however, that Article 16 shall only be
                          applied retroactively if the statute of limitations period has not already expired by
                          the Effective Date).



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                   Page 57 of 66
                    24.7.3        Any Article 2.4 whereabouts failure (whether a filing failure or a missed test, as
                                  those terms are defined in the International Standard for Results Management)
                                  prior to the Effective Date shall be carried forward and may be relied upon, prior
                                  to expiry, in accordance with the International Standard for Results
                                  Management, but it shall be deemed to have expired twelve (12) months after it
                                  occurred.

                    24.7.4        With respect to cases where a final decision finding an anti-doping rule violation
                                  has been rendered prior to the Effective Date, but the Athlete or other Person is
                                  still serving the period of Ineligibility as of the Effective Date, the Athlete or other
                                  Person may apply to IPF or other Anti-Doping Organization which had Results
                                  Management responsibility for the anti-doping rule violation to consider a
                                  reduction in the period of Ineligibility in light of these Anti-Doping Rules. Such
                                  application must be made before the period of Ineligibility has expired. The
                                  decision rendered may be appealed pursuant to Article 13.2. These Anti-Doping
                                  Rules shall have no application to any case where a final decision finding an
                                  anti-doping rule violation has been rendered and the period of Ineligibility has
                                  expired.

                    24.7.5        For purposes of assessing the period of Ineligibility for a second violation under
                                  Article 10.9.1, where the sanction for the first violation was determined based on
                                  rules in force prior to the Effective Date, the period of Ineligibility which would
                                  have been assessed for that first violation had these Anti-Doping Rules been
                                  applicable, shall be applied.74

                    24.7.6        Changes to the Prohibited List and Technical Documents relating to substances
                                  or methods on the Prohibited List shall not, unless they specifically provide
                                  otherwise, be applied retroactively. As an exception, however, when a Prohibited
                                  Substance or a Prohibited Method has been removed from the Prohibited List,
                                  an Athlete or other Person currently serving a period of Ineligibility on account of
                                  the formerly Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method may apply to IPF or
                                  other Anti-Doping Organization which had Results Management responsibility
                                  for the anti-doping rule violation to consider a reduction in the period of
                                  Ineligibility in light of the removal of the substance or method from the Prohibited
                                  List.




74
     [Comment to Article 24.7.5: Other than the situation described in Article 24.7.5, where a final decision finding an anti-doping rule
     violation has been rendered prior to the Effective Date and the period of Ineligibility imposed has been completely served, these
     Anti-Doping Rules may not be used to re-characterize the prior violation.]



IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                        Page 58 of 66
APPENDIX 1           DEFINITIONS75

ADAMS: The Anti-Doping Administration and Management System is a Web-based database management
tool for data entry, storage, sharing, and reporting designed to assist stakeholders and WADA in their anti-
doping operations in conjunction with data protection legislation.

Administration: Providing, supplying, supervising, facilitating, or otherwise participating in the Use or
Attempted Use by another Person of a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method. However, this definition
shall not include the actions of bona fide medical personnel involving a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited
Method used for genuine and legal therapeutic purposes or other acceptable justification and shall not
include actions involving Prohibited Substances which are not prohibited in Out-of-Competition Testing
unless the circumstances as a whole demonstrate that such Prohibited Substances are not intended for
genuine and legal therapeutic purposes or are intended to enhance sport performance.

Adverse Analytical Finding: A report from a WADA-accredited laboratory or other WADA-approved
laboratory that, consistent with the International Standard for Laboratories, establishes in a Sample the
presence of a Prohibited Substance or its Metabolites or Markers or evidence of the Use of a Prohibited
Method.

Adverse Passport Finding: A report identified as an Adverse Passport Finding as described in the applicable
International Standards.

Aggravating Circumstances: Circumstances involving, or actions by, an Athlete or other Person which may
justify the imposition of a period of Ineligibility greater than the standard sanction. Such circumstances and
actions shall include, but are not limited to: the Athlete or other Person Used or Possessed multiple
Prohibited Substances or Prohibited Methods, Used or Possessed a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited
Method on multiple occasions or committed multiple other anti-doping rule violations; a normal individual
would be likely to enjoy the performance-enhancing effects of the anti-doping rule violation(s) beyond the
otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility; the Athlete or Person engaged in deceptive or obstructive
conduct to avoid the detection or adjudication of an anti-doping rule violation; or the Athlete or other Person
engaged in Tampering during Results Management. For the avoidance of doubt, the examples of
circumstances and conduct described herein are not exclusive and other similar circumstances or conduct
may also justify the imposition of a longer period of Ineligibility.

Anti-Doping Activities: Anti-doping Education and information, test distribution planning, maintenance of a
Registered Testing Pool, managing Athlete Biological Passports, conducting Testing, organizing analysis
of Samples, gathering of intelligence and conduct of investigations, processing of TUE applications, Results
Management, monitoring and enforcing compliance with any Consequences imposed, and all other
activities related to anti-doping to be carried out by or on behalf of an Anti-Doping Organization, as set out
in the Code and/or the International Standards.

Anti-Doping Organization: WADA or a Signatory that is responsible for adopting rules for initiating,
implementing or enforcing any part of the Doping Control process. This includes, for example, the
International Olympic Committee, the International Paralympic Committee, other Major Event Organizations
that conduct Testing at their Events, International Federations, and National Anti-Doping Organizations.

Athlete: Any Person who competes in sport at the international level (as defined by each International
Federation) or the national level (as defined by each National Anti-Doping Organization). An Anti-Doping
Organization has discretion to apply anti-doping rules to an Athlete who is neither an International-Level
Athlete nor a National-Level Athlete, and thus to bring them within the definition of “Athlete”. In relation to
Athletes who are neither International-Level nor National-Level Athletes, an Anti-Doping Organization may
elect to: conduct limited Testing or no Testing at all; analyze Samples for less than the full menu of
Prohibited Substances; require limited or no whereabouts information; or not require advance TUEs.
However, if an Article 2.1, 2.3 or 2.5 anti-doping rule violation is committed by any Athlete over whom an

75   [Comment to Definitions: Defined terms shall include their plural and possessive forms, as well as those terms used as other parts
     of speech.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                       Page 59 of 66
Anti-Doping Organization has elected to exercise its authority to test and who competes below the
international or national level, then the Consequences set forth in the Code must be applied. For purposes
of Article 2.8 and Article 2.9 and for purposes of anti-doping information and Education, any Person who
participates in sport under the authority of any Signatory, government, or other sports organization
accepting the Code is an Athlete.76

Athlete Biological Passport: The program and methods of gathering and collating data as described in the
International Standard for Testing and Investigations and International Standard for Laboratories.

Athlete Support Personnel: Any coach, trainer, manager, agent, team staff, official, medical, paramedical
personnel, parent or any other Person working with, treating or assisting an Athlete participating in or
preparing for sports Competition.

Attempt: Purposely engaging in conduct that constitutes a substantial step in a course of conduct planned
to culminate in the commission of an anti-doping rule violation. Provided, however, there shall be no anti-
doping rule violation based solely on an Attempt to commit a violation if the Person renounces the Attempt
prior to it being discovered by a third party not involved in the Attempt.

Atypical Finding: A report from a WADA-accredited laboratory or other WADA-approved laboratory which
requires further investigation as provided by the International Standard for Laboratories or related Technical
Documents prior to the determination of an Adverse Analytical Finding.

Atypical Passport Finding: A report described as an Atypical Passport Finding as described in the applicable
International Standards.

CAS: The Court of Arbitration for Sport.

Code: The World Anti-Doping Code.

Competition: A single race, match, game or singular sport contest. For example, a basketball game or the
finals of the Olympic 100-meter race in athletics. The distinction between a Competition and an Event will
be as provided in the IPF By Laws and Constitution. More specifically, under all Powerlifting rules other
than these Anti-Doping Rules, “competition” means a single lifting session out of the series of lifting
sessions during the Event Period.

Consequences of Anti-Doping Rule Violations (“Consequences”): An Athlete's or other Person's violation
of an anti-doping rule may result in one or more of the following: (a) Disqualification means the Athlete’s
results in a particular Competition or Event are invalidated, with all resulting Consequences including
forfeiture of any medals, points and prizes; (b) Ineligibility means the Athlete or other Person is barred on
account of an anti-doping rule violation for a specified period of time from participating in any Competition
or other activity or funding as provided in Article 10.14; (c) Provisional Suspension means the Athlete or
other Person is barred temporarily from participating in any Competition or activity prior to the final decision
at a hearing conducted under Article 8; (d) Financial Consequences means a financial sanction imposed
for an anti-doping rule violation or to recover costs associated with an anti-doping rule violation; and (e)
Public Disclosure means the dissemination or distribution of information to the general public or Persons
beyond those Persons entitled to earlier notification in accordance with Article 14.

Contaminated Product: A product that contains a Prohibited Substance that is not disclosed on the product
label or in information available in a reasonable Internet search.




76   [Comment to Athlete: Individuals who participate in sport may fall in one of five categories: 1) International-Level Athlete, 2)
     National-Level Athlete, 3) individuals who are not International- or National-Level Athletes but over whom the International
     Federation or National Anti-Doping Organization has chosen to exercise authority, 4) Recreational Athlete, and 5) individuals over
     whom no International Federation or National Anti-Doping Organization has, or has chosen to, exercise authority. All International-
     and National-Level Athletes are subject to the anti-doping rules of the Code, with the precise definitions of international and
     national level sport to be set forth in the anti-doping rules of the International Federations and National Anti-Doping Organizations.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                           Page 60 of 66
Decision Limit: The value of the result for a threshold substance in a Sample, above which an Adverse
Analytical Finding shall be reported, as defined in the International Standard for Laboratories.

Delegated Third Party: Any Person to which IPF delegates any aspect of Doping Control or anti-doping
Education programs including, but not limited to, third parties or other Anti-Doping Organizations that
conduct Sample collection or other Doping Control services or anti-doping Educational programs for IPF,
or individuals serving as independent contractors who perform Doping Control services for IPF (e.g., non-
employee Doping Control officers or chaperones). This definition does not include CAS.

Disqualification: See Consequences of Anti-Doping Rule Violations above.

Doping Control: All steps and processes from test distribution planning through to ultimate disposition of
any appeal and the enforcement of Consequences, including all steps and processes in between, including
but not limited to Testing, investigations, whereabouts, TUEs, Sample collection and handling, laboratory
analysis, Results Management, and investigations or proceedings relating to violations of Article 10.14
(Status During Ineligibility or Provisional Suspension).

Education: The process of learning to instill values and develop behaviors that foster and protect the spirit
of sport, and to prevent intentional and unintentional doping.

Event: A series of individual Competitions conducted together under one ruling body (e.g., the Olympic
Games, World Championships of an International Federation, or Pan American Games).

Event Period: The time between the beginning and end of an Event, as established by the ruling body of
the Event.

Event Venues: Those venues so designated by the ruling body for the Event

Fault: Fault is any breach of duty or any lack of care appropriate to a particular situation. Factors to be
taken into consideration in assessing an Athlete’s or other Person’s degree of Fault include, for example,
the Athlete’s or other Person’s experience, whether the Athlete or other Person is a Protected Person,
special considerations such as impairment, the degree of risk that should have been perceived by the
Athlete and the level of care and investigation exercised by the Athlete in relation to what should have been
the perceived level of risk. In assessing the Athlete’s or other Person’s degree of Fault, the circumstances
considered must be specific and relevant to explain the Athlete’s or other Person’s departure from the
expected standard of behavior. Thus, for example, the fact that an Athlete would lose the opportunity to
earn large sums of money during a period of Ineligibility, or the fact that the Athlete only has a short time
left in a career, or the timing of the sporting calendar, would not be relevant factors to be considered in
reducing the period of Ineligibility under Article 10.6.1 or 10.6.2.77

Financial Consequences: See Consequences of Anti-Doping Rule Violations above.

In-Competition: The period commencing at 11:59 p.m. on the day before a Competition in which the Athlete
is scheduled to participate through the end of such Competition and the Sample collection process related
to such Competition.78




77   [Comment to Fault: The criteria for assessing an Athlete’s degree of Fault is the same under all Articles where Fault is to be
     considered. However, under Article 10.6.2, no reduction of sanction is appropriate unless, when the degree of Fault is assessed,
     the conclusion is that No Significant Fault or Negligence on the part of the Athlete or other Person was involved.]

78   [Comment to In-Competition: Having a universally accepted definition for In-Competition provides greater harmonization among
     Athletes across all sports, eliminates or reduces confusion among Athletes about the relevant timeframe for In-Competition
     Testing, avoids inadvertent Adverse Analytical Findings in between Competitions during an Event and assists in preventing any
     potential performance enhancement benefits from substances prohibited Out-of-Competition being carried over to the Competition
     period.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                     Page 61 of 66
Independent Observer Program: A team of observers and/or auditors, under the supervision of WADA, who
observe and provide guidance on the Doping Control process prior to or during certain Events and report
on their observations as part of WADA’s compliance monitoring program.

Individual Sport: Any sport that is not a Team Sport.

Ineligibility: See Consequences of Anti-Doping Rule Violations above.

Institutional Independence: Hearing panels on appeal shall be fully independent institutionally from the Anti-
Doping Organization responsible for Results Management. They must therefore not in any way be
administered by, connected or subject to the Anti-Doping Organization responsible for Results
Management.

International Event: An Event or Competition where the International Olympic Committee, the International
Paralympic Committee, an International Federation, a Major Event Organization, or another international
sport organization is the ruling body for the Event or appoints the technical officials for the Event.

International-Level Athlete: Athletes who compete in sport at the international level, as defined by each
International Federation, consistent with the International Standard for Testing and Investigations. For the
sport of powerlifting International-Level Athletes are defined as set out in the Scope section of the
Introduction to these Anti-Doping Rules.79

International Standard: A standard adopted by WADA in support of the Code. Compliance with an
International Standard (as opposed to another alternative standard, practice or procedure) shall be
sufficient to conclude that the procedures addressed by the International Standard were performed
properly. International Standards shall include any Technical Documents issued pursuant to the
International Standard.

Major Event Organizations: The continental associations of National Olympic Committees and other
international multi-sport organizations that function as the ruling body for any continental, regional or other
International Event.

Marker: A compound, group of compounds or biological variable(s) that indicates the Use of a Prohibited
Substance or Prohibited Method.

Metabolite: Any substance produced by a biotransformation process.

Minimum Reporting Level: The estimated concentration of a Prohibited Substance or its Metabolite(s) or
Marker(s) in a Sample below which WADA-accredited laboratories should not report that Sample as an
Adverse Analytical Finding.

Minor: A natural Person who has not reached the age of eighteen (18) years.

National Anti-Doping Organization: The entity(ies) designated by each country as possessing the primary
authority and responsibility to adopt and implement anti-doping rules, direct the collection of Samples, the
management of test results, and the conduct of hearings at the national level. If this designation has not
been made by the competent public authority(ies), the entity shall be the country’s National Olympic
Committee or its designee.


79   [Comment to International-Level Athlete: Consistent with the International Standard for Testing and Investigations, IPF is free to
     determine the criteria it will use to classify Athletes as International-Level Athletes, e.g., by ranking, by participation in particular
     International Events, by type of license, etc. However, it must publish those criteria in clear and concise form, so that Athletes are
     able to ascertain quickly and easily when they will become classified as International-Level Athletes. For example, if the criteria
     include participation in certain International Events, then the International Federation must publish a list of those International
     Events.]




IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                             Page 62 of 66
National Event: A sport Event or Competition involving International- or National-Level Athletes that is not
an International Event.

National Federation: A national or regional entity which is a member of or is recognized by IPF as the entity
governing IPF's sport in that nation or region.

National-Level Athlete: Athletes who compete in sport at the national level, as defined by each National
Anti-Doping Organization, consistent with the International Standard for Testing and Investigations.

National Olympic Committee: The organization recognized by the International Olympic Committee. The
term National Olympic Committee shall also include the National Sport Confederation in those countries
where the National Sport Confederation assumes typical National Olympic Committee responsibilities in
the anti-doping area.

No Fault or Negligence: The Athlete or other Person's establishing that he or she did not know or suspect,
and could not reasonably have known or suspected even with the exercise of utmost caution, that he or
she had Used or been administered the Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method or otherwise violated
an anti-doping rule. Except in the case of a Protected Person or Recreational Athlete, for any violation of
Article 2.1, the Athlete must also establish how the Prohibited Substance entered the Athlete’s system.

No Significant Fault or Negligence: The Athlete or other Person's establishing that any Fault or Negligence,
when viewed in the totality of the circumstances and taking into account the criteria for No Fault or
Negligence, was not significant in relationship to the anti-doping rule violation. Except in the case of a
Protected Person or Recreational Athlete, for any violation of Article 2.1, the Athlete must also establish
how the Prohibited Substance entered the Athlete’s system.

Operational Independence: This means that (1) board members, staff members, commission members,
consultants and officials of the Anti-Doping Organization with responsibility for Results Management or its
affiliates (e.g., member federation or confederation), as well as any Person involved in the investigation and
pre-adjudication of the matter cannot be appointed as members and/or clerks (to the extent that such clerk
is involved in the deliberation process and/or drafting of any decision) of hearing panels of that Anti-Doping
Organization with responsibility for Results Management and (2) hearing panels shall be in a position to
conduct the hearing and decision-making process without interference from the Anti-Doping Organization
or any third party. The objective is to ensure that members of the hearing panel or individuals otherwise
involved in the decision of the hearing panel, are not involved in the investigation of, or decisions to proceed
with, the case.

Out-of-Competition: Any period which is not In-Competition.

Participant: Any Athlete or Athlete Support Person.

Person: A natural Person or an organization or other entity.

Possession: The actual, physical Possession, or the constructive Possession (which shall be found only if
the Person has exclusive control or intends to exercise control over the Prohibited Substance or Prohibited
Method or the premises in which a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method exists); provided, however,
that if the Person does not have exclusive control over the Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method or
the premises in which a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method exists, constructive Possession shall
only be found if the Person knew about the presence of the Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method and
intended to exercise control over it. Provided, however, there shall be no anti-doping rule violation based
solely on Possession if, prior to receiving notification of any kind that the Person has committed an anti-
doping rule violation, the Person has taken concrete action demonstrating that the Person never intended
to have Possession and has renounced Possession by explicitly declaring it to an Anti-Doping Organization.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this definition, the purchase (including by any electronic or other




IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                    Page 63 of 66
means) of a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method constitutes Possession by the Person who makes
the purchase.80

Prohibited List: The List identifying the Prohibited Substances and Prohibited Methods.

Prohibited Method: Any method so described on the Prohibited List.

Prohibited Substance: Any substance, or class of substances, so described on the Prohibited List.

Protected Person: An Athlete or other natural Person who at the time of the anti-doping rule violation: (i)
has not reached the age of sixteen (16) years; (ii) has not reached the age of eighteen (18) years and is
not included in any Registered Testing Pool and has never competed in any International Event in an open
category; or (iii) for reasons other than age has been determined to lack legal capacity under applicable
national legislation.81

Provisional Hearing: For purposes of Article 7.4.3, an expedited abbreviated hearing occurring prior to a
hearing under Article 8 that provides the Athlete with notice and an opportunity to be heard in either written
or oral form.82

Provisional Suspension: See Consequences of Anti-Doping Rule Violations above.

Publicly Disclose: See Consequences of Anti-Doping Rule Violations above.

Recreational Athlete: A natural Person who is so defined by the relevant National Anti-Doping Organization;
provided, however, the term shall not include any Person who, within the five (5) years prior to committing
any anti-doping rule violation, has been an International-Level Athlete (as defined by each International
Federation consistent with the International Standard for Testing and Investigations) or National-Level
Athlete (as defined by each National Anti-Doping Organization consistent with the International Standard
for Testing and Investigations), has represented any country in an International Event in an open category
or has been included within any Registered Testing Pool or other whereabouts information pool maintained
by any International Federation or National Anti-Doping Organization.83

Regional Anti-Doping Organization: A regional entity designated by member countries to coordinate and
manage delegated areas of their national anti-doping programs, which may include the adoption and
implementation of anti-doping rules, the planning and collection of Samples, the management of results,
the review of TUEs, the conduct of hearings, and the conduct of Educational programs at a regional level.

Registered Testing Pool: The pool of highest-priority Athletes established separately at the international
level by International Federations and at the national level by National Anti-Doping Organizations, who are

80   [Comment to Possession: Under this definition, anabolic steroids found in an Athlete's car would constitute a violation unless the
     Athlete establishes that someone else used the car; in that event, IPF must establish that, even though the Athlete did not have
     exclusive control over the car, the Athlete knew about the anabolic steroids and intended to have control over them. Similarly, in
     the example of anabolic steroids found in a home medicine cabinet under the joint control of an Athlete and spouse, IPF must
     establish that the Athlete knew the anabolic steroids were in the cabinet and that the Athlete intended to exercise control over
     them. The act of purchasing a Prohibited Substance alone constitutes Possession, even where, for example, the product does not
     arrive, is received by someone else, or is sent to a third party address.]

81   [Comment to Protected Person: The Code treats Protected Persons differently than other Athletes or Persons in certain
     circumstances based on the understanding that, below a certain age or intellectual capacity, an Athlete or other Person may not
     possess the mental capacity to understand and appreciate the prohibitions against conduct contained in the Code. This would
     include, for example, a Paralympic Athlete with a documented lack of legal capacity due to an intellectual impairment. The term
     “open category” is meant to exclude competition that is limited to junior or age group categories.]

82   [Comment to Provisional Hearing: A Provisional Hearing is only a preliminary proceeding which may not involve a full review of
     the facts of the case. Following a Provisional Hearing, the Athlete remains entitled to a subsequent full hearing on the merits of
     the case. By contrast, an “expedited hearing”, as that term is used in Article 7.4.3, is a full hearing on the merits conducted on an
     expedited time schedule.]

83   [Comment to Recreational Athlete: The term “open category” is meant to exclude competition that is limited to junior or age group
     categories.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                          Page 64 of 66
subject to focused In-Competition and Out-of-Competition Testing as part of that International Federation's
or National Anti-Doping Organization's test distribution plan and therefore are required to provide
whereabouts information as provided in Article 5.5 and the International Standard for Testing and
Investigations.

Results Management: The process encompassing the timeframe between notification as per Article 5 of
the International Standard for Results Management, or in certain cases (e.g., Atypical Finding, Athlete
Biological Passport, whereabouts failure), such pre-notification steps expressly provided for in Article 5 of
the International Standard for Results Management, through the charge until the final resolution of the
matter, including the end of the hearing process at first instance or on appeal (if an appeal was lodged).
Sample or Specimen: Any biological material collected for the purposes of Doping Control.84

Signatories: Those entities accepting the Code and agreeing to implement the Code, as provided in Article
23 of the Code.

Specified Method: See Article 4.2.2.

Specified Substance: See Article 4.2.2.

Strict Liability: The rule which provides that under Article 2.1 and Article 2.2, it is not necessary that intent,
Fault, Negligence, or knowing Use on the Athlete’s part be demonstrated by the Anti-Doping Organization
in order to establish an anti-doping rule violation.

Substance of Abuse: See Article 4.2.3.

Substantial Assistance: For purposes of Article 10.7.1, a Person providing Substantial Assistance must: (1)
fully disclose in a signed written statement or recorded interview all information he or she possesses in
relation to anti-doping rule violations or other proceeding described in Article 10.7.1.1, and (2) fully
cooperate with the investigation and adjudication of any case or matter related to that information, including,
for example, presenting testimony at a hearing if requested to do so by an Anti-Doping Organization or
hearing panel. Further, the information provided must be credible and must comprise an important part of
any case or proceeding which is initiated or, if no case or proceeding is initiated, must have provided a
sufficient basis on which a case or proceeding could have been brought.

Tampering: Intentional conduct which subverts the Doping Control process but which would not otherwise
be included in the definition of Prohibited Methods. Tampering shall include, without limitation, offering or
accepting a bribe to perform or fail to perform an act, preventing the collection of a Sample, affecting or
making impossible the analysis of a Sample, falsifying documents submitted to an Anti-Doping Organization
or TUE committee or hearing panel, procuring false testimony from witnesses, committing any other
fraudulent act upon the Anti-Doping Organization or hearing body to affect Results Management or the
imposition of Consequences, and any other similar intentional interference or Attempted interference with
any aspect of Doping Control.85

Target Testing: Selection of specific Athletes for Testing based on criteria set forth in the International
Standard for Testing and Investigations.

Team Sport: A sport in which the substitution of players is permitted during a Competition.


84   [Comment to Sample or Specimen: It has sometimes been claimed that the collection of blood Samples violates the tenets of
     certain religious or cultural groups. It has been determined that there is no basis for any such claim.]

85   [Comment to Tampering: For example, this Article would prohibit altering identification numbers on a Doping Control form during
     Testing, breaking the B bottle at the time of B Sample analysis, altering a Sample by the addition of a foreign substance, or
     intimidating or attempting to intimidate a potential witness or a witness who has provided testimony or information in the Doping
     Control process. Tampering includes misconduct which occurs during the Results Management and hearing process. See Article
     10.9.3.3. However, actions taken as part of a Person's legitimate defense to an anti-doping rule violation charge shall not be
     considered Tampering. Offensive conduct towards a Doping Control official or other Person involved in Doping Control which does
     not otherwise constitute Tampering shall be addressed in the disciplinary rules of sport organizations.]

IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                                      Page 65 of 66
Technical Document: A document adopted and published by WADA from time to time containing mandatory
technical requirements on specific anti-doping topics as set forth in an International Standard.

Testing: The parts of the Doping Control process involving test distribution planning, Sample collection,
Sample handling, and Sample transport to the laboratory.

Testing Pool: The tier below the Registered Testing Pool which includes Athletes from whom some
whereabouts information is required in order to locate and Test the Athlete Out-of-Competition.

Therapeutic Use Exemption (TUE): A Therapeutic Use Exemption allows an Athlete with a medical
condition to Use a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method, but only if the conditions set out in Article
4.4 and the International Standard for Therapeutic Use Exemptions are met.

Trafficking: Selling, giving, transporting, sending, delivering or distributing (or Possessing for any such
purpose) a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method (either physically or by any electronic or other
means) by an Athlete, Athlete Support Person or any other Person subject to the authority of an Anti-Doping
Organization to any third party; provided, however, this definition shall not include the actions of bona fide
medical personnel involving a Prohibited Substance used for genuine and legal therapeutic purposes or
other acceptable justification, and shall not include actions involving Prohibited Substances which are not
prohibited in Out-of-Competition Testing unless the circumstances as a whole demonstrate such Prohibited
Substances are not intended for genuine and legal therapeutic purposes or are intended to enhance sport
performance.

UNESCO Convention: The International Convention against Doping in Sport adopted by the 33 rd session
of the UNESCO General Conference on 19 October 2005 including any and all amendments adopted by
the States Parties to the Convention and the Conference of Parties to the International Convention against
Doping in Sport.

Use: The utilization, application, ingestion, injection or consumption by any means whatsoever of any
Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method.

WADA: The World Anti-Doping Agency.

Without Prejudice Agreement: For purposes of Articles 10.7.1.1 and 10.8.2, a written agreement between
an Anti-Doping Organization and an Athlete or other Person that allows the Athlete or other Person to
provide information to the Anti-Doping Organization in a defined time-limited setting with the understanding
that, if an agreement for Substantial Assistance or a case resolution agreement is not finalized, the
information provided by the Athlete or other Person in this particular setting may not be used by the Anti-
Doping Organization against the Athlete or other Person in any Results Management proceeding under the
Code, and that the information provided by the Anti-Doping Organization in this particular setting may not
be used by the Athlete or other Person against the Anti-Doping Organization in any Results Management
proceeding under the Code. Such an agreement shall not preclude the Anti-Doping Organization, Athlete
or other Person from using any information or evidence gathered from any source other than during the
specific time-limited setting described in the agreement.




IPF 2021 Anti-Doping Rules. Amended 2023                                                  Page 66 of 66
