WORLD RAW POWERLIFTING FEDERATION
(ASSOCIATION, ORGANIZATION) WRPF/WRPA/WRPO

Technical Rules Book

Edition 01.07.2023

Current Rules Book is an official publication of the rules of WRPF powerlifting competitions
approved by the Presidium of the WRPF Russia and its President.
The entry of force of the current Rules Book is July 01, 2023
Copying and publishing is prohibited without written permission of the copyright
holders - WRPF Russia.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 2

Contents
I.

GENERAL RULES OF POWERLIFTING ..............................................................................................4

II. EQUIPMENT AND SPECIFICATION ................................................................................................ 11
III. PERSONAL EQUIPMENT .................................................................................................................. 15
IV. POWER LIFTS AND RULES OF PERFORMANCE .......................................................................... 20
4.1.

Squat. ........................................................................................................................................... 20

4.2.

Bench press. ................................................................................................................................ 21

4.3.

Feet Up Bench Press. ................................................................................................................. 22

4.4.

Deadlift. ....................................................................................................................................... 24

V. WEIGHING IN ..................................................................................................................................... 25
VI. ORDER OF COMPETITION ............................................................................................................... 27
VII. REFEREE, JURY AND TECHNICAL COMMITTEE ......................................................................... 33

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 3

I.

GENERAL RULES OF POWERLIFTING
1.1. General.

1.1.1. World Raw Powerlifting Federation (Association, Organization) (as WRPF/ WRPA/ WRPO),
called Federation or “WRPF”, hereinafter «WRPF» - is independent sport organisation the main
aim of which is to popularise RAW powerlifting in the world.
1.1.2. Technical Rules book of the WRPF is the main document, which identifies basic principles of
organizing and running WRPF championships. The athletes, who are performing at the
competitions according to WRPF, coaches, all the officials of the competitions, must know and
abide these rules.
1.1.3. The WRPF recognizes the following lifts in all competitions run under WRPF rules:
-

Raw Powerlifting (Full power: Squat, Bench Press, Deadlift);
Classic Powerlifting (Full power: Squat, Bench Press, Deadlift);
Push-pull (Bench Press and Deadlift);
Bench Press;
Feet Up Bench Press;
Bench Press among athletes with the physical features;
Folk Bench Press;
Deadlift;
Strict biceps curl.

1.1.4. Raw and Classic Powerlifting Definition:
1.1.4.1.The approved costume and equipment allowed for the RAW division competitions will be
defined as a non–supportive, one piece, single-ply singlet, a t-shirt, optional undershorts,
socks, optional belt, shoes, and optional single-ply wrist wraps and knee sleeves. Knee wraps
of any length are not allowed. The Rules of Performance for all three lifts are the same for
Raw and Classic competitors.
1.1.4.2.The approved costume and equipment allowed for the CLASSIC division competitions will be
defined as a non–supportive, one piece, single-ply singlet, a t-shirt, optional undershorts,
socks, optional belt, shoes, and optional single-ply wrist wraps, knee sleeves and knee wraps.
The Rules of Performance for all three lifts are the same for Raw and Classic competitors.
1.1.5. The technical rules for "Folk Bench Press", "Strict biceps curl" and "Bench press among athletes
with physical features" could be found on the official website of the Federation:
http://wrpf.pro/en/pravila/.
1.1.6. Three lifts in powerlifting must be taken in the same sequence in all competitions conducted under
WRPF rules: Squat, Bench Press and Deadlift. Two lifts in Push-pull meet must be taken in the
same sequence in all competitions: Bench Press and Deadlift.
1.1.7. The main document of the competitions, along with the rules, is the statement of competition,
hereinafter the "Statement". Other changes, which are not reflected in the rules, may be changed
and must be stated in the Statement.
1.1.8. Permissible deviations from the rules, which may be stated in the statement:
-

-

uniting age categories in accordance with the statements of the current rules. The following age
categories could be united for awards and the overall scores: "Masters M1, M2, M3, M4 and M5,
into category "Masters"; «Teenagers 14-16» and «Teenagers 17-19» into «Teenagers»; uniting all
age categories into the one «Open»;
uniting all weight classes, within the rules registered in the current Rules;
uniting «Amateurs Drug Tested» and «Amateurs» divisions into the one division – «Amateurs»;
defining the other order of counting Team Championship Scores.
WRPF Technical Rules

Page 4

1.1.9. Competitive results and records are determined in kilograms.

1.2. Divisions.
1.2.1. Competitions are held among athletes in the following divisions:
-

«Amateurs Drug Tested», hereinafter «Amateurs-D»
«Amateurs non Drug Tested», hereinafter – «Amateurs»
«Professionals»

taking into account classification the athletes into different divisions by weight categories, age categories
and sex.
1.2.2. Every participant in the «Amateurs» and «Professionals» divisions is given three attempts to
complete each competitive movement.

1.3. Age categories.
1.3.1. To compete the athlete must be at least 14 or older. The athlete must be at the minimum age on the
day of the competition. The athlete who haven’t attained minimum age on the day of the
competition can take part in the competition only with the written permission of his parents or the
child's legal representative, made in the stated form.
1.3.2. There is a special rule about the age categories:
-

The day a Teenager turns 20 years he or she is no longer a Teenager.
The day a Junior turns 24 years he or she is no longer a Junior.

1.3.3. The following age categories for men and women, which recognized in WRPF, in the divisions
"Amateurs with DC" and "Amateurs", are divided into the age groups:

Men / Women:
Teenage:
Sub-Junior:
Junior:
Open:
Masters M1:
Masters M2:
Masters M3:
Masters M4:
Masters M5:

from 14 to and including 16;
from 17 to and including 19;
from 20 to and including 23;
from 24 to and including 39;
from 40 to and including 49;
from 50 to and including 59;
from 60 to and including 69;
from 70 to and including 79;
from 80 years and older.

1.3.4. Athletes from «Professionals» are competing in the Open age category without age classification
but with sex classification.
1.3.5. It is allowed to transfer results of successful attempts from the following age categories Teenagers
14-16, Sub-Juniors 17-19, Juniors, Masters M1, Masters M2, Masters M3, Masters M4, Masters
M5 into the results of successful attempts of the Open age class.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 5

1.4. Body weight categories.
Men:
52.0 kg Class up to 52.0 kg
56.0 kg Class from 52.01 to 56 kg
60.0 kg Class from 56.01 to 60.0 kg
67.5 kg Class from 60.01 to 67.5 kg
75.0 kg Class from 67.51 to 75.0 kg
82.5 kg Class from 75.01 to 82.5 kg
90.0 kg Class from 82.51 to 90.0 kg
100.0 kg Class from 90.01 to 100.0 kg
110.0 kg Class from 100.01 to 110.0 kg
125.0 kg Class from 110.01 to 125.0 kg
140.0 kg Class from 125.01 to 140.0 kg
140.0 kg + Class from 140.01 to unlimited
Women:
44.0 kg Class up to 44.0 kg
48.0 kg Class from 44.01 to 48.0 kg
52.0 kg Class from 48.01 to 52.0 kg
56.0kg Class from 52.01 to 56.0 kg
60.0 kg Class from 56.01 to 60.0 kg
67.5 kg Class from 60.01 to 67.5 kg
75.0 kg Class from 67.51 to 75.0kg
82.5 kg Class from 75.01 to 82.5 kg
90.0 kg Class from 82.51 to 90.0 kg
kg + Class from 90.1 to unlimited

1.5. Defining winners and absolute winners, rewarding competitors.
1.5.1. The athlete, who has finished the competition with the largest total is titled as the winner in
Powerlifting, following the results of three competitive lifts. The lifted total includes the best
results of all attempts performed by the athlete on the platform and taken into the account by the
referees. Other athletes are determined in descending order based on the lifted total. The athletes,
who lifted a zero result in all three attempts of the one lift, are excluded from further Powerlifting
competition.The athlete, who has made the largest total, is titled as the winner in Push-pull,
following the results of two competitive lifts. The lifted total includes the best results of all
attempts performed by the athlete on the platform and taken into the account by the referees. Other
athletes are determined in descending order based on the lifted total. The athletes, who lifted a
zero result in all the attempts of the one lift, are excluded from further Push-pull competition. The
athlete, who has collected the largest result performing a single lift is titled as the winner in single
lift (Bench Press or Deadlift), following the results of his lift. The result includes the best numbers
from all three attempts by the athlete on the platform and taken into the account by the referees.
Other athletes are determined in descending order based on the lifted result.
1.5.2. If the results of two or more athletes are the same, the preference is given to the athlete with the
lighter bodyweight. If two athletes during the weight-in procedure were registered with the same
body weight and by the end of the competition got the same total, the procedure of re-weighting
would take place. The higher place will take the athlete whose body weight will be lighter. If the
bodyweight of the athletes will be the same again, then both athletes are given the same place and
the next place is not occupied.
1.5.3. There are places in every age category, and there are places inside them in every weight category.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 6

1.5.4. The Best Lifters are defined by the Wilks coefficient in age groups: “Teenagers”, “Juniors”,
“Open” and “Masters”. While calculating points in “Masters” age category the McCullough
formula is additionally applied. The final result (total) of the participant is multiplied by the
coefficient, and the result (point) becomes a criterion for comparing athletes and ranging them
among absolute winners. Athlete who got the highest amount of points becomes a winner. Other
places are ranged in decreasing order in accordance with the number of winner’s points. You can
find the Table of coefficients for men and women in Appendix №1 to the current Rules.
1.5.5. Rewarding ceremony of the athletes. The awarding ceremony of WRPF Championships
participants and winners in the personal, absolute and team scores is held in accordance with the
Statement of the competition. The allowed uniform of the athletes for the Awards ceremony at
WRPF tournaments, Championships, etc. is the following: full tracksuit, t-shirt, sport shoes. Every
piece of athlete appearance must be clean and tidy. It is not allowed to use the emblems and logos
on uniform of the athletes with offensive content.

1.6. Team championship.
1.6.1. The team championship can be held at the tournament, according to Statement. The amount and
team composition is determined by the Statement.
1.6.2. The system of point scoring for team championship is also regulated by the Statement.
1.6.3. The main rule for point scoring is the following: team points could be got for first ten places and
are allocated in the following order: 12 points – for the 1 place, 9 points – for the 2 place, 8 points
– for the 3 place, 7 points – for the 4 place, 6 points – for the 5 place, 5 points – for the 6 place, 4
points – for the 7 place, 3 points – for the 8 place, 2 points –for the 9 place and 1 points – for the
10 place. All the participants of the competition ranked below the 10th place earn 1 point for
command superiority. The team which gets the maximum number of points becomes a winner in
the command superiority. If the number of team points are equal for two teams, the command
which has more taken 1st places becomes a winner. In case of having the same amount of 1st
places the winner is determined by the number of taken 2d, 3d, 4th and so on places.
1.6.4. There could be Increasing coefficients for team scores which could be attained according to the
athletes level in Sports standard (NB: in Russia there is a system of Sports standard which is based
on the bodyweight, lifted total, type of powerlifting usage of equipment and other parameters).
1.6.5. Team entry form should be sent by the Captain of the Team accordingly to deadline announced in
the Statement. Changes and additions after deadline could be made only with the approval of the
Organizing committee of the tournament.
1.6.6. There can be run several team championships during the competition. For example, the
championship between teams of different countries, between teams of different regions or between
teams of different sport clubs.
1.6.7. Other questions about team championship are regulated by the Competition Rules.

1.7. Tournament ranking.
1.7.1. WRPF identifies the following classification of tournaments:
- city/regional (district, sport club)
- master’s sport categories (subject of the country)
- regional
- international, national or All-Russian
1.7.2. Requirements for the technical equipment of tournaments are listed in «Technical requirements
for running WRPF competition». Obeying these requirements is an absolute must for all the
competitions which are sanctioned or held under WRPF. Requirements for the referees and the
process of fixing records are described in the relevant paragraphs of the current Rule Book.
WRPF Technical Rules

Page 7

1.7.3. By International, National or All-Russian tournament could be meant World Championships and
World Cups, Continental Championship, as well as individual countries tournaments with
assignment of sports titles up to WRPF PRO, with the registration of the national, continental and
world records.
1.7.4. By Regional tournament could be Championships and Cups o cups of individual territorial
districts of the country with the assignment of sports titles up to WEPF MSIC inclusively and
registration of the national records.
1.7.5. By Master (subject of the country’s) tournament could be meant any Championship and Cup of
territorial/regional or of the subject of the countries with the assignment of sports titles up to
Sports master WRPF inclusively, and registration of the National and Regional records.
1.7.6. By City (town, district, club) tournament could be meant any Championship and Cup of the city,
town, district, club with the assignment of sports titles up to Sports master WRPF inclusively and
registration of the City records. These competitions are held without drug tested division.
1.7.7. There could be done another classification of Tournaments for WRPF national departments
according to the features of the country. Usage of the other classification must be approved by the
President of WRPF.

1.8. Drug-testing.
1.8.1. During WRPF competitions there are drug-testing operations which are conducted in accordance
with the «WRPF Anti-doping rules».

1.9. WRPF Records.
1.9.1. WRPF registers the following records:
-

World
Continental
National

1.9.2. There also could be registered Regional WRPF records (of the district, city or town). National and
regional representatives are totally responsible for registration and accounting of this records.
Registration of region (subject of the country, city) records is not a compulsory requirement by
Federation.
1.9.3. World and Continental records could be registered only by the head of WRPF or Official recordspeaker of Federation.
1.9.4. In case of setting Continental or World records on tournaments which are run by national
departments of WRPF, the Officials of these national departments are responsible to provide in a
strict 3-days-deadline a protocol of tournament to the HQ of WRPF. The protocol should be
created in established form and represent the needed information about the set records.
1.9.5. Only citizens of the country can set national records. For example, citizens of the Russian
Federation can only set Russia’s records; only U.S. citizens can set America’s records, and so on.
1.9.6. The level of set records depends on classification of the tournament.
1.9.7. The approved status of records depends on the rank of the referees presented at these
competitions.
1.9.8. All records which could be set during WRPF Championships are possible to be made in the
following movements:

-

Powerlifting Total
Powerlifting Squat
Powerlifting Bench Press
WRPF Technical Rules

Page 8

-

Powerlifting Deadlift
Push-pull Total
Push-pull Bench Press
Push-pull Deadlift
Bench Press
Feet Up Bench Press
Deadlift

1.9.9. All records are registered in each age category, weight category and differentiate by sex.
1.9.10. Records in «Amateurs-D» division should be registered separately from records in «Amateurs»
and «Professionals».
1.9.11. In «Professionals» records are registered only in Open age class with separation by weight and
sex.
1.9.12. Registration of records only takes place in the tournament sanctioned by WRPF and in full
compliance with the rules of the federation and with the full accordance of the equipment, referees
qualification to the stated Rules.
1.9.13. Record attempts can be made at any attempt. In case when during one competition, and in one
category there were implemented several successful record-setting attempts, the attempt with the
last, the heaviest weight would be recognized as new record.
1.9.14. In case when two athletes exceeded the existing record in separate lifts or in the full power total
by lifting the same weight, as champion will be recognized the athlete with lower body weight. If
both athletes during weighing in procedure were recorded with the same bodyweight, as champion
would be recognized the athlete who was the first to beat the existing record.
1.9.15. New WRPF Records are only valid if they exceed the previous record by at least 0.5 kg (500 gr).
1.9.16. Records in age categories are counted even if there is only one participant at this age class.
1.9.17. In case of absence of the record chart results, records are defined by the results in the lifts which
are set by Presidium of WRPF as a «record standard» and are accepted as records of all levels.
Only athlete who exceeds «record standard» becomes a record-holder.
"Standard of Record" in the age class is equated to Sports category (please see the
“Classification Standards WRPF” document on the official website - https://wrpf.pro/normativy/):
-

Teens 14-16 - there is no “Standard of Record”;
Teens 17-19 - “I sport category”
Junior 20-23 - "Candidate Master of Sports";
Open - "Master of Sports";
Masters 40-49 - "Master of Sports";
Masters 50-59 - "Candidate Master of Sports";
Masters 60-69; 70-79 - there is no “Standard of Record”.

1.9.18. At «Amateurs-D», «Amateurs» and «Professionals» divisions’ fourth attempt may be given for
athlete to establish a record in each movement. The only aim of this attempt is to establish a new
record. This fourth attempt doesn’t count in total result, and doesn’t consider while ranking
athletes by places at competition nor doesn’t consider in registration title, accounting team points
or accounting absolute winners.
1.9.19. Additional record attempt may be given for athlete only in case of successful (approved by the
referees on the platform) third attempt in «Amateurs-D», «Amateurs» and «Professionals»
divisions.
1.9.20. Only those athletes who applied and participated at the tournament may try to set a record in an
additional attempt (i.e. an athlete with a zero result in the first three attempts but remaining in the
tournament as a guest cannot set a record in the fourth attempt). If the athlete wants to set the
record in single movement, he or she must be applied in advance to the division before the start of

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 9

the competition. It could also take place with the approval of the organizing committee 30 minutes
before the beginning of the competition.
1.9.21. Athletes can set the record only in the division (or divisions) in which they were lifting before the
end of the last weigh-in.
1.9.22. The new records could be counted by age categories depending on at which category the athlete
applied for the tournament – “Junior” could set a record as “Junior” and in the Open age class,
«Teenagers» could set a record as «Teenagers» and in the «Open» age class, athletes from «Open»
age class could set a record only in «Open» age class, «Masters» could set a record among
«Masters» as well as in «Open» age class.
1.9.23. In case if the class of the tournament determines that all athletes can compete only in the Open
category, despite their actual age (Teenagers, Juniors or Masters), the athletes can set a record in
their actual age class.
1.9.24. After a new record was set an athlete is obligated to be completely checked in terms of clothing
and equipment by Chief Referee right away on the platform. The procedure should be done
immediately after the record attempt and before the athlete will leave the platform.

1.10. Memberships in WRPF.
1.10.1. All athletes, referees, and other officials of the competition have to be active members of their
national/local WRP Federation on the day of the tournament.
1.10.2. Heads of national offices could set annual Federation membership fee (the "Fee"). The fee
amount could be specified in the Competition Rules. The payment should be made by athletes at
the registration (during the weighing procedure). Payment by the referees is made after the initial
assignment of judicial category, or during the at the registration of the participants, before the
referee will start doing his obligations at the competition.
1.10.3. Fee is made once a year and valid through 12 months from the date of the payment. After this
period the fee has to be paid again.
1.10.4. During the international competitions all the athletes and referees should be members of the
national WRPF departments. If WRPF department in the current country does not exist, they
should pay a membership of the national federation of the country which holds the tournament
by paying the annual membership fee. The same rule applies to foreign participants, referees at
any tournament of national WRP Federation.
1.10.5. All members of the WRPF must be entered into a one database. This database is available in
every tournament at weighing secretary. Secretary have to conduct verification of participants in
this database while registering participants. If athlete from other country participates in the
competition, organizers can request the member’s information from database of the national
department WRPF from this country.
1.10.6. In order to obtain the status of a national affiliated branch of WRPF, a potential representative
must submit an application in the form on the website: https://wrpf.pro/en/zayavka-na-otkrytienovogo-regionalnogo-otdeleniya/.
1.10.7. The President of WRPF is the only person who is eligible to make the decision to open a
National Office.

1.11. International affiliation.
1.11.1. Rules and requirements of the International affiliation WRPF/WEPF/WAF/WSF - are regulated
by the document "International affiliation of national WRPF/WEPF/WAF/WSF ". The document
is available on the official website of the federation: https://wrpf.pro/en/dokumenty/.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 10

II. EQUIPMENT AND SPECIFICATION
Every tournament in each level has different requirements of presence and quantity of equipment.
These requirements are listed in Appendix №2 «Technical requirements for holding WRPF competition».
The fulfillment of these requirements is a must. However, all of the equipment described in them, must
comply with the following items:

2.1. Scales.
2.1.1. Scales for weighing the athletes have to be digital electronic, showing weight with two decimal
signs after a comma and a measuring range of at least 180 kg. A scales certificate to accompany
the scales must be current to within one year of the date of the competition.

2.2. Platform.
2.2.1. All lifts shall be carried out on a platform measuring between 2.5 m x 2.5 m minimum and 4.0 m x
4.0 m maximum. It must not exceed 15 cm in height from the surrounding stage or floor. The
surface of the platform must be flat and non-slip.
2.2.2. It is not allowed to use the platform of multiple segments are not attached to one another.
2.2.3. The upper surface of the platform must provide good grip of athlete's feet with platform, so it
should be of a non-slip material and firm. It is strictly prohibited to have the segments unattached
to each other.
2.2.4. Loose mats or similar sheeting materials (thickness of more than 1 cm) are not permitted.

2.3. Bars and collars.
2.3.1. At the WRPF competitions only those collars and bars are allowed which provide safety while
making movements.
2.3.2. The following types of bars are allowed to use:
-

Standard bar for powerlifting (stiff)
A special bar for squat;
Special deadlift bar (flexible/soft).

2.3.3. All bars used in competition must be created on factory production, shall be straight, clean of rust,
has a well knurled and grooved. To fix weight on the bar it is necessary to use fixing collars. They
have to provide a secure fix of the plates on the bar. Bar and collars must fit the following general
requirements:
-

total overall length should be from 2,2 and should not exceed 2.45 m;
distance between the collar faces is less than 1.31 m and no more than 1,48m;
diameter of the bar should not exceed 32 mm or be less than 27 mm;
weight of the bar and collars could be 25 or 30 kg (for special squat bar);
collars must weigh 2.5 kg each;
all bars used during the competition must weigh within 0.25 percent of their face value;
diameter of the sleeve should not exceed 52 mm or be less than 50 mm.
there shall be a diameter machined marking or the bar taped so as to measure 81 cm between
marking or tape.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 11

2.3.4. It is prohibited to change the bar during the one performing group except the case when the bar is
damaged what makes the usage of this bar dangerous to the health of athletes. The decision to
change the bar could be taken by Technical committee, jury or referee. Changing the bar is
provided accordingly to which exercise the bar was used.
2.3.5. Bar usage during the tournament is regulated in Annex №2 « Technical requirements for holding
WRPF competition».

2.4. Discs.
Discs used in competitions WRPF must meet the following requirements:
2.4.1. All discs used in competition must be created on factory production, there shouldn’t be no chips,
cracks and other defects which can affect on their safe usage;
2.4.2. All discs used in competition must weight within 0.25 percent or 10 grams of their face value.
2.4.3. The hole size in the middle of the disc must not exceed 53 mm or be less than 51 mm.
2.4.4. Discs must be within the following range: 0,25 kg, 0,5 kg, 1 kg, 1.25 kg, 2.5 kg, 5 kg, 10 kg, 15
kg, 20 kg, and 25 kg. Disks 50 kg are allowed for usage.
2.4.5. Discs weighing 25 kg must not exceed 6 cm in thickness. Discs weighing 20 kg and under must
not exceed 5 cm in thickness. Discs weighing 50 kg must not exceed 12 cm in thickness. These
are the rules for metal discs, not rubber-coated type.
2.4.6. Discs must be colored as the following: 0,25 kg; 0,5 kg; 1,25 kg; 2,5 kg; – any monochromatic
color; 5 kg – white; 10 kg - green, 15 kg - yellow, 20 kg - blue, 25 kg - red, 50 kg - green.
Acceptable to use disks of other color only in agreement with the head of the national department
of the federation.
2.4.7. All discs must be clearly marked with their weight and loaded in the sequence of heavier discs
innermost with the smaller discs in descending weight arranged so that the referees can read the
weight on each disc.
2.4.8. The first and heaviest discs are loaded on the bar must be loaded face in; the rest of the discs are
loaded face out.
2.4.9. The diameter of the largest discs shall not be more than 45 cm. The diameter of the discs of 50 kg,
25 kg and 20 kg must be strictly 45cm.
2.4.10. Rubber discs are acceptable only in case when there is a minimum of 5 cm from the outside of the
collars to the end of the bar, for spotter grip outside of the discs.

2.5. Squat Racks.
2.5.1. In WRPF tournaments can be used two types of squat racks: «mono lift» with a hydraulic system
of changing height of racks and discharging level-arms from which the athlete takes off the bar
and standard rack for powerlifting with a lever arm system of changing height of the rack.
2.5.2. Squat racks must be a unitary structure, durable, easy to assistants’ work and ensuring safety of
making attempts by the athlete.
2.5.3. The racks type "mono lift" must be capable of being secured at the required height by means
ribbons or chains. To avoid falling on the floor of the bar, in the case if athlete dropping her with
themselves.
2.5.4. In international and national tournaments to perform squat attempts "Mono lift" must be used with
mechanically, hydraulically or otherwise mechanism of changing height of the rack. In other
levels of competitions it is allowed the use standard squat racks.
2.5.5. The squat racks shall be designed to adjust from a minimum height of 1.00 m in the lowest
position to extend to a height of at least 1.70 m in 5 cm increments. The width between the outer
edges of the arms which hold the bar must not exceed 1.2 meters.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 12

2.5.6. "Mono lift" racks have to have levers holding the bar that can move inwardly so that the distance
between is adjusted up to 60 cm and at any of the intermediate positions the levers must be
securely fixed with special clamps or wedges.
2.5.7. Standard squat racks should be able to tilt and bring together two vertical levers to securely fix
levers in position is necessary to use clamps or wedges.
2.5.8. To fix the required height of racks should be used special pins.

2.6. Bench.
2.6.1. The bench, which used in WRPF competitions shall be a single and has a sturdy construction, be
safe to participate athletes and assistants.
2.6.2. The bench shall conform to the following dimensions:
-

length - not less than 1.22m;
width - not less than 29 cm and not exceeding 32 cm;
height - not less than 42 cm and not exceeding 45 cm measured from the floor to the top of the
padded surface of the bench;
the height of the uprights, which must be adjustable, shall be a minimum of 75 cm to a maximum
of 110 cm measured from the floor to the bar rest position;
minimum width between insides of bar rests shall be 1.1 m;
the head of the bench shall extend 22 cm beyond the center of the uprights with a tolerance of 5
cm either way.

2.6.3. The bench must be equipped with special limiters with adjustable height.
2.6.4. The head of the bench must be equipped with pads for the legs of the assistant, which should not
prevent the athlete to perform the powerlifting movement.
2.6.5. Bench height should be adjustable via a lever mechanism or jacks.
2.6.6. For fixing the height of vertical uprights and safety uprights pins have to be used.

2.7. Lights.
2.7.1. A system of lights shall be provided for the referees to make known their decisions of good lift or
no lift. A system of lights should have an information board with three white signals and three red
signals located in a horizontal row and also one panel for each of the three referees on the
platform. Also judicial board should have a two-tone alarm sound. Alarms and evaluation have to
be visible to the referees on the platform, to the jury, to the secretary, athlete speaking on the
platform and to the audience.
2.7.2. When a referee detects an infraction he activates his control. Each referee will control a white and
a red light. These two colors represent a “good lift” and “no lift” respectively. Additionally, in
case of «no lift», when referees give signals they have to use error information card, more about
this see at chapter 2.9 of the Rules.
2.7.3. The lights shall be arranged horizontally to correspond with the positions of the three referees.
They must be wired in such a way that they light up together and not separately when activated by
the three referees.
2.7.4. The referees are obliged to monitor the correct completion of the athlete’s competitive movement.
In case of breaking the rules the referee has the right to enable the remote optical signal before
completing the lift. When most of referees turn on the remote control, there is an alarm that
informs the athlete that his attempt is failed.
2.7.5. For emergency purposes, i.e. a breakdown in the electrical system, the referees will be provided
with small white or red flags or paddles with which to make known their decisions on the Chief
Referee’s audible command “flags”. In case of having no flags referees show their decisions by
hand gestures. The thumb lifted upwards - «good lift», thumbs down - «no lift».
WRPF Technical Rules

Page 13

2.8. Clocks.
2.8.1. The timer (stopwatch) is used to set a time limit, after calling the athlete on the platform, and
before the start of the lift.
2.8.2. The timer must be placed within the overall visibility of the referees on the platform, secretary,
jury, spectators and athletes in the exit area on to platform. There should be a information board
on which is visible countdown allotted for athlete output.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 14

III. PERSONAL EQUIPMENT
On any subject of personal equipment are prohibited abusive labels which would counteract with the
sporting event.

3.1. Lifting suit.
3.1.1. The suit must be constructed entirely of fabric or a synthetic textile material, so that no support
should be given to the lifter by the suit while lifting.
3.1.2. Any seams, trims or other details which, in the opinion of the members of the Technical
Committee, the jury and in case of their absence, referees, applied in suits exclusively to enhance
or consolidate are cause for prohibiting the use of such suit at the competition.
3.1.3. The suit shall be one-piece and form fitting without any looseness when is worn.
3.1.4. The suit straps must be worn over the lifter’s shoulders at all times in all lifts in all competitions.
3.1.5. The lifting suit must conform to the following specifications:
-

Can be created in any color, be monochrome or multicolored.
The suit may have the logos or emblems - of the lifter’s nation - of the lifter’s name - of the
lifter’s club or individual sponsor.
It is prohibited to have prints or labels with the slogans which are offensive or discrediting the
sport.

3.1.6. Seams and hems must not be wider than 3 cm and a thickness of 0.5 cm. The seams may be
covered or reinforced narrow band of stretchable fabric material is not more than 2 cm in width
and 0.5 cm in thickness. Only weightlifting or wrestling suits may have seams and hems
exceeding 3 cm in width. Also in suits in the crotch area may be two layers of the same with itself
suits material no larger than 12 x24 cm.
3.1.7. The suit must have legs, the length of the outer side of which may reach 25 cm, but the length
along the inner side of leg from middle of crotch shall not be less than 5 cm and not more than 15
cm. Measurement is made from passing through the top of the crotch seam along the inside of the
leg.
3.1.8. Do not use suites with:
-

sleeves of any length.
any fasteners or other parts from metal, plastic or other materials that may cause injury or damage
during the completing the powerlifting movement.
it is forbidden to sew on material residues, if the straps of suit was stitched.

3.1.9. Others suits, that are not accepted by these Rules, are not allowed for the use in competitions.

3.2. T-Shirt.
3.2.1. A t-shirt must be worn under the lifting suit by all lifters during the Squat and Bench Press; men
and women do not need to wear a t-shirt during the Deadlift. Also women can wear the bra or top
under the t-shirt, with no additional support. You can wear only one a T-shirt at the same time.
3.2.2. The t-shirt must conform to the following specifications:
-

T-shirt must be made only of cotton and / or polyester. T-shirts consist of any rubberized stretch
material are prohibited. Also, denim and canvas are prohibited.
The shirt must not have any reinforced seams or pockets, buttons, zippers or V-neck collar.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 15

-

-

The shirt must not have reinforced seam.
The shirt must have sleeves. Those sleeves must terminate below the lifter’s deltoid and must not
extend onto or below the lifter’s elbow. The sleeves may not be pushed or rolled up onto the
deltoid when the lifter is competing.
T-shirt can be an officially branded t-shirt of a competition, or may bear the logo or emblem of the
lifter’s nation, the lifter’s club or individual sponsor.
T-shirt must be to sit free on the athlete what is guaranteed not to give him any physical support.

3.3. Briefs.
3.3.1. A standard commercial “athletic supporter” or standard commercial briefs (not boxer shorts) of
any mixture of cotton, nylon or polyester shall be worn under the lifting suit during completing all
the tree lifts.
3.3.2. Women may also wear a commercial or sports bra.
3.3.3. Swimming trunks or any garment consisting of rubberized or similar stretch material except in the
waistband, shall not be worn under the lifting costume.
3.3.4. Any supportive undergarment is not legal for use in competition. Evaluation of this parameter left
to the discretion of referees, the jury and the technical committee.

3.4. Socks.
3.4.1. Only one pair of socks is allowed to be worn.
3.4.2. Socks may be of any colour or multicoloured.
3.4.3. They shall not be of such length on the leg that they come into contact with the knee wraps or
knee sleeves.
3.4.4. Full length leg stockings, tights or hose are strictly forbidden.
3.4.5. During deadlift all the lifters should use gaiters. Their length should be such that gaiters end of 5
cm from the patella.
3.4.6. It is allowed to use special guards and overlays during the deadlift. They are allowed to wear
under gaiters. They must be put on in such a manner that the top of guards does not protrude from
the gaiters.

3.5. Belt.
3.5.1. Competitors may wear a belt. If worn, it shall be on the outside of the lifting suit.
3.5.2. The belt shall be made of leather, vinyl or other similar non-stretch material in one or more
laminations which may be glued and/or stitched together.
3.5.3. It shall not have additional padding, bracing or supports of any material either on the surface or
concealed within the lamentations of the belt.
3.5.4. The buckle shall be attached at one end of the belt by means of studs and/or stitching.
3.5.5. The belt may have a buckle with one or two prongs or “quick release” type (“quick release”
referring to lever.) A tongue loop shall be attached close to the buckle by means of studs/or
stitching.
3.5.6. Permissible to place on the belt any inscriptions or drawings that are not abusive and did not
discredit the sport.
3.5.7. Dimensions:
-

Width of belt maximum 10 cm. (1)
Thickness of belt maximum 13 mm along the main length. (2)
Inside width of buckle maximum 11 cm. (3)
Outside width of buckle maximum 13 cm. (4)

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 16

-

Tongue loop maximum width 5 cm. (5)
Distance between end of belt and far end of tongue loop maximum 15 cm. (6)

3.6. Shoes or boots.
3.6.1. Shoes or boots must be worn while during completing the lifts.
3.6.2. Shoes shall be taken to include only sports shoes/sports boots; Weightlifting/Powerlifting boots or
Deadlift slippers. The above is referring to indoor sports e.g. wrestling/basketball/ gymnastics.
3.6.3. No part of the underside shall be higher than 5 cm.
3.6.4. The thickness of the inner soles if they are not part of the factory made shoes must not exceed 1
cm.
3.6.5. It is forbidden to use shoes with open heel (slippers, shale).
3.6.6. It is forbidden to use shoes with metal spikes or strips, pads.

3.7. Wrist wraps.
3.7.1. It is allowed to use bandages or wraps of elastic single-layer, only factory-produced materials:
medical crepe, polyester, cotton or combinations thereof.
3.7.2. Wrists wraps shall not exceed 1 m in length and 8 cm in width. Any sleeves and Velcro
patches/tabs for securing must be incorporated within the one meter length. A loop may be
attached as an aid to securing. The loop shall not be over the thumb or fingers during the actual
lift.
3.7.3. Standard commercial sweat bands may be worn, but they should not exceed 12 cm in width. A
combination of wrist wraps and sweat bands is not allowed.
3.7.4. A wrist covering shall not extend beyond 10 cm above and 2 cm below the center of the wrist joint
and shall not exceed a covering width of 12 cm.
3.7.5. Using more than one wrap on one hand at the same time is prohibited.

3.8. Knees wraps.
3.8.1. Knee wraps may be worn during WRPF competitions while squat and deadlift movements.
3.8.2. It is allowed to use wraps made only of single-layer elastic factory material: medical crepe,
polyester, cotton or combination of them.
3.8.3. Wraps may not exceed 2.5 m in length and 8 cm in width for all weight categories. A knee wrap
shall not extend beyond 15 cm above and 15 cm below the center of the knee joint and shall not
exceed a total covering width of 30 cm.
3.8.4. Wraps must not come into contact with socks or lifting suit.
3.8.5. Using more than one wrap on one knee at the same time is prohibited.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 17

3.8.6. Alternatively, a one ply knee sleeve or knee cap made from commercially available neoprene or
woven elastic that is covered with polyester, cotton or combinations of either materials could be
used. It should not be more than 30cm in length, and less than 7mm in thickness. Knee sleeves
cannot have any crisscross seams that allow additional support (The Yellow Jacket Knee Sleeves
are approved only for Classic RAW, not RAW). The placement of the sleeve is the same as in
3.8.3.
3.8.7. Raw lifters may only use the optional single ply knee sleeve during their lift, and it may not have
any Velcro on it, they must be non-adjustable and non-fastening.

3.9. Wraps, tapes, strap.
3.9.1. The wraps of medical crepe or conventional medical bandages and special wristbands require
special approval for usage during competitions.
3.9.2. Athletes can apply to the thumbs two layers of medical tape. However, plasters and bandages can
not be used by an athlete as aids in the performance of the exercises or for the hold the bar.
3.9.3. While doing "squat" and "deadlift" it is allowed to use bandages, elbow pads or bandages.
3.9.4. With the permission of the jury, official doctor or paramedic on duty medical tape may be applied
on the injured body part. However, it may not be used as aids to the lifter in holding the bar.
3.9.5. Medical tape or its like may not be worn anywhere else on the body without official permission of
the Jury, or Chief Referee. Medical tape may not be used as aids to the lifter in holding the bar.
3.9.6. All medical reports in accordance with which the athlete will be able to have a permission to use
medical wraps and bandages during lifting should be submitted to the Chief Referee before the
event to determine their suitability to the rules.
3.9.7. It is forbidden to use any wraps or bandages on the elbow joints completing "bench press".
3.9.8. If a lifter missing some parts of fingers, including the thumb, in which that hand is responsible for
gripping a bar in the deadlift, he is permitted to use the strap. However, this strap may be used
only on that hand and attached at the wrist only. The strap can only be used in agreement with the
WRPF Head Referee.

3.10. Inspection of Personal Equipment.
3.10.1. During the competition the inspection of personal equipment for every lifter may take place at
any time. It is not a mandatory procedure. Any athlete in case of doubt of any of the referees
may be checked for permissible use of equipment, both before and after the competition.
3.10.2. The athlete can provide the form for review during his weigh-in, but no later than 20 minutes
prior to his flight.
3.10.3. Only the referees, the jury, the members of the Technical Committee may check the equipment
of the athlete.
3.10.4. Equipment that does not comply with these rules is not allowed to use. But there could be
exceptions. For example: the length of the bandages or trouser-leg can be cut off for the
conformity to the rules.
3.10.5. Equipment or form that has an unkempt appearance or damaged is forbidden to use during the
competition. The offensive inscriptions or images on the form or equipment are prohibited.
3.10.6. If the referee made a mistake when checking the equipment, it is does not entitle to use this
equipment during the competition. If such an error is detected, all the approaches that the athlete
has fulfilled with its use, are not counted.
3.10.7. Items such as watches, costume jewelry, mouthpieces, eye wear and feminine hygiene articles
need not be inspected.
3.10.8. Before attempting a world, regional, continental record the lifter will be inspected by the
Technical Controller.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 18

3.11. Usage of other supportive things.
3.11.1. The use of oil, grease or other lubricants on the body, or personal equipment is strictly forbidden.
Baby powder, resin, talc or magnesium carbonates or chalk are the only substances that may be
added to the body and attire.
3.11.2. The use of any form of adhesive on the underside of footwear is strictly forbidden (this applies to
any kind of ratchet inserts in the sole, steel or other things, the lining of the sandpaper, etc.).
3.11.3. It is forbidden to apply any adhesives, e.g. glass paper, emery cloth, etc. and to cover the shoes
with sweet water and magnesium carbonate. A spray of water is acceptable.
3.11.4. No substances may be applied to the powerlifting equipment. This takes into account all
substances other than that which may be used periodically as a sterile agent in the cleaning of the
bar, bench, or platform.

3.12.

Antiseptic equipment operations.

3.12.1. The presence of an athlete on the platform with bleeding or open wounds is unacceptable. Any
damage must be treated and bandaged before going on the platform. If there is blood on the bar,
or equipment, and the lifting must be performed, so the bar and the equipment should be
sterilized with a disinfectant solution. Competition organizers are responsible for the availability
of such a solution during the competition.
3.12.2. In the presence of a bleeding or open wound the athlete is obliged to resort to medical assistance
for proper inspection and take the necessary measures for the treatment of wounds and to stop
bleeding in order to be admitted to lift on the platform. The time allotted for the attempt does not
stop, and in case of impossibility of solving this problem in a set time the athlete loses his
attempt.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 19

IV. POWER LIFTS AND RULES OF PERFORMANCE
4.1. Squat.
4.1.1. The lifter shall face the front of the platform.
4.1.2. After removing the bar from the racks while facing the front of the platform, the lifter may move
forward or backward to establish the lifting position. If the squats are performed on the
"monolift", it is not necessary to walk away from the racks. The lifter may be aided in removal of
the bar from the racks by the assistants / loaders.
4.1.3. The bar shall be held horizontally across the shoulders with the hands and fingers gripping the bar.
The hands may be positioned anywhere. The maximum width of the grip is until the hand touches
in contact with the inner collars of bar. Do not touch discs or bushings. Open grip, in which the
thumb grips the bar from the outside, is allowed.
4.1.4. Starting position - this is the position of the athlete in which: the feet flat upon the platform with
the knees locked and the corpus is located vertically (slight deviation is allowable). The top of the
bar not more than 3 cm below the top of the anterior deltoids.
4.1.5. Immediately, after the setting the starting position, the Chief Referee will give the signal to begin
the lift. The Chief Referee’s signal shall consist of a downward movement of the arm and audible
command "Squat". Before receiving the signal to “squat” the lifter may make any position
adjustments within the rules, without penalty. For reasons of safety the lifter will be requested to
“Replace” the bar, together with a backward movement of the arm, if after a period of five
seconds he is not in the correct position to begin the lift.
4.1.6. Upon receiving the Chief Referee’s signal "Squat", the lifter must bend the knees and lower the
body until the top surface of the legs at the hip joint is lower than the top of the knees.
4.1.7. Only one attempt is allowed to make a movement. The attempt is deemed to have commenced
when the lifters knees have unlocked. Completing the lift it is allowed to get some the movement
of the bar from a starting position down along the back of the athlete (the slide), but not more than
thickness (diameter) of the bar.
4.1.8. The lifter must recover at will to an upright position with the knees locked. Double bouncing at
the bottom of the squat attempt or any downward movement is not permitted. When the lifter is
motionless (in the apparent final position) the Chief Referee will give the signal to rack the bar.
4.1.9. The signal to rack the bar will consist of a backward motion of the arm and the audible command
“Rack”. The lifter must then return the bar to the racks. Foot movement after the rack signal will
not be cause for failure. For reasons of safety the lifter may request the aid of the spotter/loaders in
returning the bar to, and replacing it in the racks. The lifter must stay with the bar during this
process.
4.1.10. No more than six and no less than three spotter/loaders shall be on the platform at any time.
4.1.11. If a lifter inadvertently begins the lift prior to the Head Referee giving the “Squat” command, and
the lifter has not continued the lift to the point they have hit the bottom of the lift and has begun
the assent of the bar, the lifter may return to the correct starting position with knees locked, or
even re-rack the bar, and then begin the lift once again after the Head Referee will give the
“Squat” command, without penalty.

Causes for disqualification of a Squat:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Failure to observe the Chief Referee’s signals at the commencement or completion of a lift.
Double bouncing at the bottom of the lift, or any downward movement during the ascent.
Failure to assume an upright position with the knees locked at the commencement or completion
of the lift.
Stepping backward or forward or moving the feet laterally. Rocking the feet between the ball and
heel is permitted.
Failure to bend the knees and lower the body until the top surface of the legs at the hip joint is
lower than the top of the knees.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 20

6.

Any movement of the bar from the starting position down along the back of the athlete (slipping)
more than the thickness (diameter) of the bar itself.
7. Contact with the bar or the lifter by the spotter/loaders between the Chief Referee’s signals in
order to make the lift easier.
8. Contact of the elbows with the legs. Slight contact is permitted if there is no supporting that might
aid the lifter.
9. Any dropping or dumping of the bar after completion of the lift.
10. If the athlete could not remove the bar from the racks during the allotted minute.
11. Unintentional or intentional contact of bar and racks during the execution attempt. However,
unintentional contact that did not help the athlete is not a reason not to count attempt.
12. Failure to comply with any of the items outlined under Rules of Performance for the squat.

4.2. Bench press.
4.2.1. The bench shall be placed on the platform with the head facing the front or angled up to 45
degrees, which will give the opportunity for Jury and the crowd to see the movement.
4.2.2. The lifter must lie on his back with head, shoulders and buttocks in contact with the bench surface.
This position shall be maintained throughout the lift.
4.2.3. The athlete's feet should be in a convenient position, in contact with the platform, plates or blocks
installed under the feet. It is allowed to touch the sharp of the foot, as well as toe of foot touching
the floor behind.
4.2.4. Hands and fingers must grip the bar positioned in the rack stands with a thumbs around grip. This
position shall be maintained throughout the lift. One-way or reverse grips are prohibited.
4.2.5. The spacing of the hands shall not exceed 81 cm measured between the forefingers (both
forefingers must be within the 81 cm marks and the whole of the forefingers must be in contact
with the 81 cm marks if maximum grip is used). In the case when an athlete has an old injury or
anatomically can not grab the bar at the same distance with both hands, he must inform the
referees about it before every attempt. If necessary, the bar may accordingly be marked before
every attempt of the athlete.
4.2.6. To achieve firm footing the lifter may use blocks which will not exceed 20 cm in total height.
Blocks in the range of 5 cm, 10 cm, 15 cm should be made available for foot placement at all
international competitions. Foot movement is permissible but must remain flat on the platform or
blocks.
4.2.7. Not more than five and not less than two spotters/loaders shall be on the platform at any time.
After setting up the starting position, the lifter may enlist the help of the spotter/loaders in
removing the bar from the racks. The lift off if assisted by the spotter/loaders must be at arm’
length.
4.2.8. A personal assistant of the athlete can be on the platform as a spotter per the request of the athlete.
In this case an assistant needs to go on the platform in a neat sport suit only, which doesn't impede
movements and doesn’t have inscriptions and drawings with provocative or offensive sense. A
spotter after providing a lift off, must immediately clear the area in front of the head referee.
4.2.9. After removing the bar from the racks, with or without the help of the spotter / loaders, the lifter
shall wait with straight arms elbows locked and hips and shoulders on the bench for the Chief
Referee’s signal.
4.2.10. The signal shall be given as soon as the lifter is motionless and the bar is properly positioned. For
reasons of safety the lifter will be requested to “Replace” the bar, together with a backward
movement of the arm, if after a period of five seconds he is not in the correct position to begin the
lift. The Chief Referee will then convey the reason why the signal was not given. Also, the
"Return" or "Help" command can be given by the senior referee on the platform to prevent
injuries, in the case of an error committed by an athlete which prevents the attempt to be counted.
If the personal spotter does not immediately leave the platform area and or in any way distracts or
impedes the head referees responsibilities, the referees may determine that the lift is unacceptable,
and it will be signaled "no lift" by the referees and given three red lights.
WRPF Technical Rules

Page 21

4.2.11. The signal to begin the attempt shall consist of a downward movement of the arm together with
the audible command “Start”.
4.2.12. After receiving the signal, the lifter must lower the bar to the chest or abdominal area, hold it
motionless, after which the Chief referee will signal the audible command “Press”.
4.2.13. After the "Press" command the lifter must then return the bar to straight arms’ length elbows
locked, non accepting significant distortions in the movement of the hands. When the position
would be motionless the audible command “Rack” shall be given together with a backward
motion of the arm.
4.2.14. If an athlete inadvertently begins to lower the barbell before the command of the central judges
"Start", but does not touch the chest, he can return it to the original position on straightened
elbows or even return to the racks, and then try again, after the central referee will give a
command "Start".
4.2.15. In case when both hands anatomically cannot be straightened entirely, the athlete should provide a
relevant medical report when registering or weighting in. It is the lifter’s responsibility to explain
the issue to all the three referees, and allow to make inspection of the intended grip prior to
making an attempt.

Causes for Disqualification of a Bench Press:
1. Failure to observe the Chief Referee’s signals at the commencement, during or completion of the
lift.
2. Any change in the elected lifting position during the lift proper i.e. any raising movement of the
shoulders, or buttocks, from the bench, or lateral movement of hands on the bar. Movement of the
head couldn’t be the cause of disqualification.
3. A slight displacement or slipping of the feet should not be considered as a cause of
disqualification if feet were not detached from the platform completely.
4. Any obvious (excessive) uneven straightening of the hands during the execution of the bench
press. Any downward movement of the whole of the bar in the course of being pressed out.
5. Bar is not lowered to chest or abdominal area i.e. not reaching the chest or abdominal area, or the
bar is touching the belt.
6. Failure to press the bar to straight arms’ length elbows locked at the completion of the lift.
Heaving, or sinking the bar into the chest or abdominal area after it is motionless in such a way as
to make the lift easier.
7. Contact with the bar or the lifter by the spotter/loaders between the Chief Referee’s signals, in
order to make the lift easier.
8. Any contact of the lifter’s feet with the bench or its supports.
9. Failure to comply with any of the items outlined under the Rules of Performance.

4.3. Feet Up Bench Press.
4.3.1. The bench shall be placed on the platform with the head facing the front or angled up to 45
degrees, which will give the opportunity for Jury and the crowd to see the movement.
4.3.2. The lifter must lie on his back with head, shoulders and buttocks (or with lumbar) in contact with
the bench surface. The bench press with legs up is done with the legs off the ground. The legs are
usually bent and hold in the air, and crossed between themselves and no part should touch the
platform, as well as any of the elements of the bench. This position is maintained throughout the
movement.
4.3.3. Hands and fingers must grip the bar positioned in the rack stands with a thumbs around grip. This
position shall be maintained throughout the lift. One-way or reverse grips are prohibited.
4.3.4. The spacing of the hands shall not exceed 81 cm measured between the forefingers (both
forefingers must be within the 81 cm marks and the whole of the forefingers must be in contact
with the 81 cm marks if maximum grip is used). In the case when an athlete has an old injury or
anatomically can not grab the bar at the same distance with both hands, he must inform the
WRPF Technical Rules

Page 22

referees about it before every attempt. If necessary, the bar may accordingly be marked before
every attempt of the athlete.
4.3.5. Not more than five and not less than two spotters/loaders shall be on the platform at any time.
After setting up the starting position, the lifter may enlist the help of the spotter/loaders in
removing the bar from the racks. The lift off if assisted by the spotter/loaders must be at arm’
length.
4.3.6. A personal assistant of the athlete can be on the platform as a spotter per the request of the athlete.
In this case an assistant needs to go on the platform in a neat sport suit only, which doesn't impede
movements and doesn’t have inscriptions and drawings with provocative or offensive sense. A
spotter after providing a lift off, must immediately clear the area in front of the head referee.
4.3.7. After removing the bar from the racks, with or without the help of the spotter / loaders, the lifter
shall wait with straight arms elbows locked and hips and shoulders on the bench for the Chief
Referee’s signal.
4.3.8. The signal shall be given as soon as the lifter is motionless and the bar is properly positioned. For
reasons of safety the lifter will be requested to “Replace” the bar, together with a backward
movement of the arm, if after a period of five seconds he is not in the correct position to begin the
lift. The Chief Referee will then convey the reason why the signal was not given. Also, the
"Return" or "Help" command can be given by the senior referee on the platform to prevent
injuries, in the case of an error committed by an athlete which prevents the attempt to be counted.
If the personal spotter does not immediately leave the platform area and or in any way distracts or
impedes the head referees responsibilities, the referees may determine that the lift is unacceptable,
and it will be signaled "no lift" by the referees and given three red lights.
4.3.9. The signal to begin the attempt shall consist of a downward movement of the arm together with
the audible command “Start”.
4.3.10. After receiving the signal, the lifter must lower the bar to the chest or abdominal area, hold it
motionless, after which the Chief referee will signal the audible command “Press”.
4.3.11. After the "Press" command the lifter must then return the bar to straight arms’ length elbows
locked, non accepting significant distortions in the movement of the hands. When the position
would be motionless the audible command “Rack” shall be given together with a backward
motion of the arm.
4.3.12. If an athlete inadvertently begins to lower the barbell before the command of the central judges
"Start", but does not touch the chest, he can return it to the original position on straightened
elbows or even return to the racks, and then try again, after the central referee will give a
command "Start".
4.3.13. In case when both hands anatomically cannot be straightened entirely, the athlete should provide a
relevant medical report when registering or weighting in. It is the lifter’s responsibility to explain
the issue to all the three referees, and allow to make inspection of the intended grip prior to
making an attempt.

Causes for Disqualification of a Feet Up Bench Press:
1. Failure to observe the Chief Referee’s signals at the commencement, during or completion of the
lift.
2. Touching with the legs (any part of them) the platform or elements of bench, lateral movement of
hands on the bar. Movement of the head couldn’t be the cause of disqualification.
3. Pressing the bar into the chest or abdomen, moving the bar along the body, after the command
“Press” by the Chief Referee.
4. Any obvious (excessive) uneven straightening of the hands during the elbows locked.
5. Any downward movement of the bar during the press, after the command “Press” by the Chief
Referee.
6. Bar is not lowered to chest or abdominal area i.e. not reaching the chest or abdominal area, or the
bar is touching the belt.
7. Failure to press the bar to straight arms’ length elbows locked at the completion of the lift.
WRPF Technical Rules

Page 23

8. Contact with the bar or the lifter by the spotter/loaders between the Chief Referee’s signals, in
order to make the lift easier.
9. Failure to comply with any of the items outlined under the Rules of Performance.

4.4. Deadlift.
4.4.1. The lifter shall face the front of the platform.
4.4.2. The bar shall lay horizontally in front of the lifters feet, gripped with an optional grip in both
hands and lifted until the lifter is standing erect.
4.4.3. The movement is made without any signal. The movement is made till the moment until the bar is
set motionless and the lifter is in the apparent finished position.
4.4.4. On completion of the lift the knees shall be locked in a straight position and the shoulders back.
4.4.5. The Chief Referee’s signal shall consist of a downward movement of the arm and the audible
command “Down”. The signal will not be given until the bar is held motionless and the lifter is in
the apparent finished position.
4.4.6. Any rising of the bar or any deliberate attempt to do so will count as an attempt. However, the jerk
of the bar by a sportsman is possible, as a reception of a psychological mood. In case of doubt, the
decision must be made in favor of the athlete.
4.4.7. Once the attempt has begun no downward movement is allowed until the lifter reaches the erect
position with the knees locked. If the bar settles as the shoulders come back (slightly downward
on completion) this should not be reason to disqualify the lift.

Causes for Disqualification of a Deadlift:
1. Any downward movement of the bar before it reaches the final position and the command
"Down" of the Chief Referee.
2. Failure to stand erect with the shoulders back.
3. Failure to lock the knees straight at the completion of the lift.
4. Supporting the bar on the thighs during the performance of the lift. If the bar edges up the thigh
but is not supported this is not reason for disqualification.
5. The lifter should benefit in all decisions of doubt made by the referee.
6. Stepping backward or forward or moving the feet laterally. Rocking the feet between the ball and
heel is permitted.
7. Lowering the bar before receiving the Chief Referee’s signal.
8. Allowing the bar to return to the platform without maintaining control with both hands, i.e.,
releasing the bar from the palms of the hand.
9. Failure to comply with any of the items outlined under Rules of Performance.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 24

V. WEIGHING IN
5.1. Weighing-in of the competitors shall be initiated 24 hours before the start of the competition for a
particular category. The meet director may schedule regular weigh in any time during the 24 hour
period.The first weighing in session lasts an hour and a half at minimum. Second weighing in
session is held two hours before and is completed a half of an hour before the start of competing of
appropriate weight class. This two sessions are mandatory. Additional sessions could be possibly
set by decision of Organizing committee. Information about all sessions should be brought to the
attention of athletes and coaches.
5.2. All athletes in the category/categories must be weighed during one of two mandatory or additional
(if so provided) sessions, which are carried out in the presence of at least one certified WRPF
referee.
5.3. Schedule of weighing in is established in the regulations and It is a mandatory part of it.
5.4. Weighing in of each participant is held in separate room behind closed doors or a screen, where
there are the participant, his coach or manager and referee or WRPF official.
5.5. Athletes should be weighed naked or in underwear (briefs for men; bra and panties for women).
Weighing in must be conducted by officials of the same sex as the athlete is. In this case additional
officials can be appointed who have a needed category of referees.
5.6. To establish the order a draw must be conducted during the weighing in. A draw determines the
order of the lifts on the platform during the competition, when athletes set the same weight on the
bar in their attempts. In the case of using an automated system for running the competitions a draw
is determined by the program.
5.7. Each athlete could be weighed only once. Re-weighing is allowed only to those athletes, whose own
weight was less or more than the permissible limits of the weight category. These athletes must
return to weigh-in and be weighed again on one of two mandatory sessions, before the end of the
last weighing session for the one and a half hours for this category, other way they will be excluded
from the competition in this weight class. Athlete, who trying to make weight, can do weighing
many times, but during the time for this weight class.
5.8. If weight of athlete exceeds the allowed for the weight class, he can go to the next, heavier weight
class. This athlete must weigh-in in time for next weight class, if it establishes by the regulations.
Athlete must match for all established qualification standards of this competition. Qualification
check is performed in the presence of the athlete. If weight of athlete is lower than the minimum of
weight class, he can go to the previous, lower weight class, provided that the procedure for
weighing this weight class is not over yet. Qualification check is performed in the presence of the
athlete.
5.9. Official weight of athlete, which is recorded in the protocol, will be fixed with rounding up to 100
grams.
5.10. Participants of age categories “Teenagers”, “Juniors” and “Masters” may declare their participation
or reconside in “Open” category without additional weigh-in, or be weighed again if they wish.
5.11. At the weigh-in the athlete's data are entered in the participant's cards or in tournament program. It
is required to include the following information:
-

Name and surname of an athlete;
Division;
Birth date, age and age category;
Country, region and city;
Weight of athlete after weigh-in and weight class;
First attempts in all lifts;
Wilks coefficient value;
Team;
Name and surname of the coach;
Draw number;
A signed form about accepting responsibility in the event of injury or an accident that could occur
due to the fault of the athlete;

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 25

-

Contacts of an athlete (telephone number, post address and e-mail);
Date of Filling in and signature of athlete;

The secretary at weigh-in should correctly enter the information, and athlete should check correctness of
all the entered data. After signing the participant’s card an athlete assumes taking responsibility for the
reliability of all data put in it. The participant’s card is an official document of tournament.
5.12. Registration and weighing of participants are made only upon presentation of a document
certifying the identity of an athlete.
5.13. During any session of weigh-in mandatory equipment check can be appointed. This information
must be published in the statement of the tournament. In other way equipment check is not
mandatory on weigh-in, but athlete may ask referee to check his equipment.
5.14. In the case when participants of several weight categories or divisions are weighted on the same
time, priority in the order is given to those athletes whose performance will begin no more than 2
hours from the current time. Otherwise, the sequence of weighing is determined by the athletes
themselves waiting their turn.
5.15. In case of severe weather or emergency situations in the competition area, time of weigh-in may
be extended by decision of technical secretary or jury member.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 26

VI. ORDER OF COMPETITION
6.1. The Round system.
Before start of competition in Bench press and Squat, athletes must measure height of the racks and
face savers. Information about rack height and, if necessary, about blocks, is sent by himself, his coach or
representative person to the attention of secretary, assistants or judges.
6.1.1. All competitors are distributed by round according to the rules of the tournament. Every round
consists of three attempts for each athlete in each lifts. Creating the rounds and setting the
attempts queue must comply with the rules given in this chapter.
6.1.2. A round must be formed in such a way that all competitors perform the same lift.
6.1.3. If there are more than 20 athletes at the competition or round, then they must be divided into
several flights consisting of an approximate equal number of participants. One stream should
consist of no more than 20 participants.
6.1.4. The round may include one or several weight classes, it is all up to the organizer. Rounds must be
classified by numbers or letters.
6.1.5. Rounds are formed by weight and age classes by increasing the declared weight in the first
attempt. Athletes of the lightest weight classes with the lowest first attempts are forming first
round (Round 1). Next rounds are formed by ascending weight classes and weights of first
attempts.
6.1.6. Arrangement of rounds, which included two or more lifts (powerlifting or push-pull), must be
implemented as following: Round 1 performing three attempts of first lift, then Round 2
performing three attempts of first lift. At this time Round 1 athletes are warming up to second lift.
When Round 2 first lift ends, Round 1 start second lift, and Round 2 lifters are warming up for
next lift. If there is only one flight with several lifts, it must be in between another divisions lifts
or 30 minutes between to warm up.
6.1.7. If number of participants in one round less than 10, an added time should be provided to the end
of each round: 9 athletes – 1 minute, 8 athletes – 2 minute, 7 athletes – 3 minutes and so on: 1
minute more for 1 athlete less. Tournament secretary must make an announcement about the
breaks and turn on a timer after the last athlete in the round.
6.1.8. In each round a bar weight is set from smallest to largest (in accordance with the existing
applications of athletes). Weight can be lowered less only by mistakes. Each athlete makes first
lift in the first round, second lift in the second round and third lift in the third round. All record
lifts will be after the third round for each lifts.
6.1.9. The athlete is allowed only one weight change in the first attempt in each exercise. Weight can be
increased or decreased from the original order and then the order of lifts should be changed
accordingly. The change of weight at the first attempt is possible no later than 5 minutes before
the start of the first attempt, at which the athlete performs. Weight changes in the first attempt
could be taken both for increase and decrease. The secretary must inform the athletes one minute
before the end of the time allotted for re-applying the starting weights.
6.1.10. If two athletes declared the same weight, athlete who have less draw number lifts first.
6.1.11. Time for the attempt for “Amateurs”, “Amateurs-D” and “Professionals” is one minute. Time for
attempt starts after a signal of a head referee: “The bar is loaded”.
6.1.12. If attempt failed by a bar loading mistake, there should be given an additional attempt with
declared weight in the end of round. If wrong weight loaded and it checked by athlete before he
starts of the lift, he can continue a lift after fixing mistake or take additional attempt in the end of a
round. If an athlete is the last in this round, he gets 5 minutes more for his next attempt.
6.1.13. An athlete must declare the second and the third attempts in one minute after his lift. If the next
attempt is not declared, 2.5 kg automatically added to last attempt weight. If last attempt was no
lift and athlete haven’t declared a next attempt weight, he will lift the same weight in next attempt.
Responsibility for weight declaring is fully on the athlete.
6.1.14. Weights of the second and the third attempts cannot be changed in powerlifting and push-pull in
squat and bench press lifts. Weight can be changed in the third attempts in deadlift.

6.1.15. In the competition of single lifts (bench press and deadlift) weight of the third attempt can be
changed.
6.1.16. Minimal weight change is 2.5 kg.

6.2. The Officials
-

Speaker/Announcer - a national or International referee (preferably) who is fluent in English and
in the language of the hosting nation.
Technical Secretary - an International Referee preferably who is fluent in speaking and writing
English and in the language of the hosting nation.
Time Keeper (a qualified referee).
Marshals/Expeditors.
Secretaries.
Spotters/Loaders.
Additional officials may be appointed as required, e.g. doctors, paramedics etc.

Responsibilities of the Officials are:
6.2.1. Speaker/Announcer:
The speaker is responsible for qualified competition management. He must perform the following
duties:
- declares s the approaches by athletes in the established in these rules order. Works with protocol
or member cards.
- announces the weight required for the next attempt, the name and surname of the athlete.
- announces the order of lifts of the next following three athletes, so that they are to enter the
platform
- When the bar is loaded and the platform cleared for lifting, the Chief Referee will indicate this
fact to the Speaker. When the Speaker announces that the bar is ready and calls the lifter to the
platform, the clock will begin. To clarify, - when the Speaker announces that the bar is
“ready/loaded”, then the lifter is committed to the attempt. Attempts announced by the speaker
must be displayed on the scoreboard in a prominent position, with the lifters name and his
bodyweight.
6.2.2. Technical Secretary:
-

-

The Technical Secretary is responsible for forming the composition of the officials - jury, judges
and other officials of the competition, the schedule of their work.
If there is no need in a full jury of three people, he can be the only one responsible for enforcing
WRPF rules. If the technical secretary is absent from the competition, then the official with the
highest status must fulfill his duties.
He is responsible to interact with all the personnel of the competition, with the referees and
athletes, resolve any disputable issues, referring to the technical rules.
He is responsible check and monitor compliance with the technical requirements for hosting
WRPF tournaments, the availability of all necessary documentation in the tournament.
He is responsible for registering the new records and collecting information for the preparation of
documents.

6.2.3. Time Keeper:
-

The time keeper is responsible for accurately recording the lapse between the announcement that
the bar is ready and the lifter starting his attempt.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 28

-

-

He is also responsible for recording time allowances whenever required, e.g. after the attempt the
lifter shall leave the platform within 30 seconds. The only exception could take place in case when
the referee checks the equipment of the athlete after setting a new record. Once the timer is
running for a lifter, it can only be stopped by the completion of a time allowance, by the start of
the lift, or at the discretion of the Chief Referee. Consequently, it is very important to check the
height of the racks before being called on the platform, because after the call, the timer starts. Any
changes in rack height must be made within the time allotted to the athlete to complete the
attempt.
After the command "The bar is loaded" the athlete is given one minute to start the attempt. During
squat and bench press the beginning of the exercise is considered as unracking the bar from the
racks, and for the deadlift - explicit or deliberate attempt to lift the bar from the platform. If the
athlete does not fulfill these requirements during the allotted time, the timekeeper announces
“Time” and the main referee gives a loud command "Rack" ("Rack"). In this case it is ‘No lift”
attempt. The chief referee makes the final decision after the "Time" command, by the reason that
the athlete violated the time limit.

6.2.4. Marshals/Expeditors:
-

-

They are responsible for collecting the weight of required attempts from the lifters or their
coaches and passing the information without delay to the speaker. The lifter is allowed one minute
between completing his last attempt and informing the speaker, via the marshal, about the weight
required for his next attempt.
They are responsible for monitoring compliance with the rules of equipment in the warm-up zone.
When identifying attempts to violate the requirements for equipment, for example: use both knee
wraps and sleeves, or use a couple of knee wraps, etc., immediately point this out to the
participant who violates the rules or his representative. If this is not possible, he reports it to the
head judge or senior judge on the platform.

6.2.5. Secretaries:
-

-

They are responsible for the weighing and registering participants, competitions, recording all
results and providing signatures of three judges on the records of the competitions, records of new
records and other documents requiring signatures.
They are responsible for prepare the award ceremony. Also they print the diplomas for winners of
personal, absolute and team championships. As far as possible, the functions of the Speaker and
the Secretary should be distributed among several official representatives. And, they are
responsible for admission of the referees to the WRPF competitions.

6.2.6. Spotters/Loaders:
-

They are responsible for the safety of the athlete, and provide him with immediate assistance in
case if he cannot lift the weight during the attempt.
Spotters/loaders are responsible for loading and unloading the bar, adjusting squat racks and
benches as required, cleaning the bar or platform.
All the spotters should work together as a team, and should be neatly dressed in a clean uniform,
in tournament T-shirts.
All the spotters must inform the chief referee of any malfunctions in the equipment so that they
can assess the problem and take the necessary measures to solve it.
At no time shall there be less than two or more than six spotters/loaders on the platform.
When the lifter prepares for his attempt, the spotters/loaders may assist him in removing the bar
from the racks. They may also assist in replacing the bar after the attempt. However, they shall not
touch the lifter or the bar during the actual attempt, i.e. during the period of time that elapses
between the commencement and completion signals. The only exception to this rule could happen
if the lift is predictable “No lift” and likely to result in injury to the lifter. In this case the

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 29

-

spotters/loaders may, either at the request of the Chief Referee or the lifter himself, step in and
help the lifter to put the bar back to the racks. If the lifter himself has failed the attempt by the
error of a spotter/loader and has no fault of his own, he shall be guaranteed with another attempt at
the discretion of the Referees and Jury at the end of the round.
Any additional spotter that an athlete may need must be selected before the competition and be
instructed by the spotter 30 minutes before the start of the competition. Additional spotter should
be available to all athletes in all types of lifts.

6.3. General rules
6.3.1. During any competition taking place, only the lifter and his coach, members of the Jury,
officiating referees and spotter/loaders will be allowed to be around the platform or on the stage.
Performing the lift, only the lifter, spotter/loaders and the referees are permitted to be present on
the platform. Coaches shall remain within the designated coaching area as defined by the Chief
Referee in charge. The selection of a zone for coaches should be made in such a way that each
coach can choose within this zone a convenient place to observe the performance of the lifting and
provide instructions and signals to the athlete regarding technical details (for example: squat
depth). At the same time, it must not interfere with the work of referees, juries, secretaries and
spotters. Photo/video reporters also can be admitted on the platform by agreement.
6.3.2. The form of coaches' clothes at international competitions consists of a national team's sports suit,
a national team's T-shirt or T-shirt, approved by WRPF. In case of violation of the established
form of clothing, the Chief Referee or the jury may prohibit the coach from being at the venue of
the competition.
6.3.3. A lifter shall not wrap or adjust any part of his costume or equipment while on the platform. The
only exception to this rule is that he may adjust his belt. Items such as inhalants, ammonia caps,
etc. cannot be utilized on the platform.
6.3.4. In all WRPF recognized competitions, the weight of the barbell must always be a multiple of
2.5kg.The progression must be at least 2.5kg between all attempts. The weight shall be always
announced in kilograms.
6.3.5. In a record attempt, the weight of the barbell must be at least 500 grams in excess of the current
record.
6.3.6. During the course of the competition, a lifter may request a record attempt that is not a multiple of
2.5kg, but is to be attempted within his prescribed attempts.
6.3.7. Record attempts may be taken on any or all of a lifter’s prescribed attempts provided that they
maintain a minimum increase of 500 grams.
6.3.8. The athlete can make permitted additions to the weight of the bar less than 2.5 kg for attempts to
set a record, only speaking at competitions corresponding to the planned record for the division
and the weight class. However, if the athlete performs in an open age category, but by age is a
teenager, junior or veteran, he can set a record in only his age category.
6.3.9. In the case where one athlete has ordered a weight that is not a multiple of 2.5 kg for the next
round, in order to establish a new record, and another one performing in the same age and weight
category after that shows a higher result, then the weight declared by the first athlete must be
Changed to the nearest weight, a multiple of 2.5 kg.
6.3.10. The Chief Referee will be solely responsible for decisions taken in the case of loading errors or
incorrect announcements by the speaker. His decision will be given to the speaker who will make
the appropriate announcement.
6.3.11. Examples of errors in setting the weight of the bar:
-

If the bar is loaded to a lighter weight than originally requested and the attempt is successful, the
lifter may accept the successful attempt or elect to take the attempt again at the originally
requested weight. If the attempt is not successful, the lifter will be granted a further attempt at the
originally requested weight. In both cases above, further attempts may only be taken at the end of
the round in which the error occurred.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 30

-

-

-

If the bar is loaded to a heavier weight than originally requested and the attempt is successful, the
lifter will be granted the attempt. However, the weight may be reduced again if required for other
lifters. If the attempt is not successful, the lifter will be granted a further attempt at the originally
requested weight at the end of the round in which the error occurred.
If the loading is not the same on each end of the bar; or any change occurs to the bar or discs
during the execution of the lift; or the platform is disarranged, if despite these factors, the lift is
successful, the lifter may accept the attempt or elect to take the attempt again. If the successful
attempt is not a multiple of 2.5 kg, then the lower closest multiple of 2.5 kg will be recorded on
the score sheet. If the attempt is unsuccessful, the lifter will be granted a further attempt. Further
attempts may only be taken at the end of the round in which the error occurred.
If the speaker makes a mistake by announcing a weight lighter or heavier than that requested by
the lifter, the Chief Referee will make the same decisions as for errors in loading.
If for any reason it is not possible for the lifter or his coach to remain in the zone close to the
platform in order to follow the progress of the competition and the lifter misses his attempt
because the speaker omitted to announce him at the appropriate weight, then the weight will be
reduced as necessary and the lifter allowed to take his attempt, but only at the end of the round.
Three unsuccessful attempts in any lift will automatically eliminate the lifter from the
competition.

6.3.12. Three unsuccessful attempts in any exercise automatically exclude the athlete from the
competition in the total of powerlifting or push pull.
6.3.13. The spotters should not help the athlete in taking the starting position in any of the lifts, their
assistance is allowed only with the initial removal of the bar from the racks.
6.3.14. On the completion of an attempt, a lifter shall leave the platform within thirty seconds. Failure to
comply with this rule may result in disqualification of the attempt at the discretion of the referees.
The only exception to this rule is if a lifter's equipment is being inspected after a record attempt.
The lifter is required not to leave the platform for this inspection to certify the records attempt.
6.3.15. If, during warm up or competition, a lifter suffers injury or in any other way exhibits signs of a
condition which may unduly or significantly jeopardize the competitor’s health and well-being,
the official doctor, Meet Director, or Chief Referee has the right to examination. If considered
inadvisable for the lifter to continue, the lifter and / or their coach will be notified of the decision
and the lifter will be removed from the meet.
6.3.16. Any physical abnormality, handicap, or incapacity of a lifter that may cause an inability to fully
comply with the rules should be brought to the attention of, and explained to, the appointed
Contest Officials. This should be in advance of the start of the lifter’s Flight. The lifter, Contest
Officials, and the platform referees for the particular lifter will then confer on the matter to best
accommodate any special considerations for the lifter. Deafness, blindness, limb, or joint
abnormalities that prevent proper straightening or extension, are examples for such special
considerations.
6.3.17. It is considered a verbal warning if any official contacts and corrects a lifter prior to, or after a lift,
about a technical portion of their lift, a rules violation, or about any equipment violations they
may have. If the lifter repeats the violation it is mandatory that their lift will be turned down by all
three officials. If an official gives any lifter a verbal warning to a lifter, they must immediately
inform all other officials on the platform that an official warning was given, and the reason for it,
so the three officials can work together as a team at all times. A repeated violation by a lifter will
result in a mandatory red light by all officials.
6.3.18. Blood or particles of skin on the bar or platform should be cleaned off with the solution of
antiseptic or alcohol to avoid infection.
6.3.19. Any lifter or coach, who by reason of his misconduct before, during, or after the competition is
likely to discredit the sport, shall be officially warned. If the misconduct continues, the Meet
Director or Head Referee may disqualify the lifter and order the coach to leave the venue. This
includes any lifter, coach, or the lifters support personal, from arguing, using foul language, or
becoming abusive with any Referee or official about the outcome of any lifts, or the legality of
equipment determinations.
WRPF Technical Rules

Page 31

6.3.20. The jury or referees may by their majority decision immediately disqualify an athlete or official if
they believe that the violation of the rules is serious enough to entail an immediate disqualification
rather than a warning.
6.3.21. In the case of a decision "2 to 1" referees, the athlete or his representative has the right to appeal to
the jury within one minute (if there is a video recording of his attempt of appropriate quality, on
which you can determine the error of the referees). Together with the video material, the
sportsman or his representative will give the jury a deposit amount of 1,000 Russian rubles (about
$25). If the jury recognizes the mistake decision of the judges, the security deposit immediately
returns to the athlete or his representative, and the athlete is given additional attempt at the end of
the current round (if by the end this round, there are three performances of other athletes or less,
as well as the appellant was the last to lift in the attempt, then before his an attempt he is given a 3
minutes break). Decision of the referees in a controversial attempt is not subject to change. In the
case that the jury recognizes the referees' assessment is correct, or the video cannot
unambiguously and unmistakably determine the correctness of the athlete's approach, an
additional attempt is not given to the athlete, the deposit is not returned to the athlete and
transferred to the cashier for further expenditure at the discretion of the Chief Referee of the
competition.
6.3.22. Within a 30 day period of all WRPF sanctioned meets should clear and credible video of any
record lift become available to the WRPF that demonstrates a lift was misloaded it will be
reviewed by the Executive Committee. If the bar was determined to be under loaded the correct
weight will be credited. If this amount is still a new record, the record will be awarded at the new
lower amount. If the bar was determined to be overloaded the correct weight will be credited and
the new record will stand at the correct amount of weight as determined by the Committee.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 32

VII. REFEREE, JURY AND TECHNICAL COMMITTEE
7.1. Referees.
7.1.1. There should be 3 referees -- the Chief Referee or Center Referee and two side referees.
7.1.2. The three referees may seat themselves in what they consider to be the best viewing positions
around the platform for each of the three lifts. However, the Chief Referee must always bear in
mind the need to be visible to the lifter performing the squat or deadlift. Side referees should not
sit strictly from on each side from the athlete, during the deadlift, because the discs on the bar will
close the view on the athlete's knees.
7.1.3. The referees are responsible for the qualitative and timely evaluation of attempts.
7.1.4. The referees supervise observance of rules of competitions and performance of lift.
7.1.5. The Chief Referee is responsible for giving the necessary signals for all three lifts. The side
referees can give a signal to the Chief Referee if they see from their point a violation in taking the
starting position by the athlete in squats or bench press.
7.1.6. Before the contest, the three referees shall jointly ascertain that:
-

-

The platform and competition equipment comply in all respects with the rules. Bars and discs are
checked for weight discrepancies and defective equipment discarded. A second bar and collars
should be ready and put aside in case of damage to the original bar or collars.
The scales work correctly and are accurate.
The lifters weigh in within the limits of weight and time for their body weight category.
The lifters costumes and personal equipment comply with the rules in all respects.

7.1.7. During the contest the three referees must ascertain that:
-

-

-

The weight of the loaded bar agrees with the weight announced by the speaker. Referees may be
issued with bar loading charts for this purpose or a computer generated bar loading software may
also be used and projected on a screen that is in a clear and visible location for the three referees.
The lifter’s personal equipment should comply with the rules while on the platform. If any referee
has the reason to doubt a lifter’s integrity in this respect he must inform of his suspicions the
Chief Referee after completion of the lift. The president of the Jury may then examine the lifter’s
personal equipment. If the lifter is found to be wearing or using any illegal item the lifter shall be
immediately disqualified from the competition. If wearing any illegal item passed in error by the
examining referees, and the lift in which the discovery was made is successful, the lift will be
rejected and then the lifter will be granted a new attempt (having removed the illegal item) at the
end of the round.
In cases of minor disruption in the equipment, the athlete's attempt may be counted. In this case,
he is issued a warning so that this violation has been eliminated to the next approach. If such
violation is found before the approach begins, the judge should ask to correct this violation.
However, the time allotted to the athlete does not stop at the approach.

7.1.8. Once the bar has been replaced in the racks or on the platform at the completion of the lift, the
referees will announce their decisions by means of the lights. White for a “good lift” and red for
“no lift”.
7.1.9. The lifter or his coach may request the reason for a "no lift" decision from any of the Referees
immediately following their lifters attempt. Such request must be made before the next lifters
attempt begins, so as not to interfere with the progression of the competition.
7.1.10. Referees shall abstain from commentary and not receive any document or verbal account
concerning the progress of the competition.
7.1.11. A referee shall not attempt to influence the decisions of the other referees.
7.1.12. The referees decide on the legitimacy of record attempts, conduct re-checking of equipment of
athletes who have made a record attempts, directly on the platform (not allowing the athlete to
leave the competition zone, until the end of the check).
WRPF Technical Rules

Page 33

7.1.13. The Chief Referee may consult with the side referees, the jury or any other official as necessary in
order to expedite the competition.
7.1.14. The Chief Referee may, at his own discretion, instruct to clean the bar or platform. If the athlete or
coach ask to clean the bar or platform, this request should be directed to the Chief Referee, and
not to the spotters on the platform.
7.1.15. The Change of the referee team in the process of competing one Round is forbidden. Except when
the qualifications of the referees are not sufficient to register a record attempt. It is desirable that
worked one referee team at the one and the same lift in different categories.
7.1.16. The selection of a referee to act as Chief Referee in one category does not preclude his selection
as a side referee in another category.
7.1.17. Cell phones or other similar electronic devices are not allowed to be in use while judging.
7.1.18. Referees will be uniformly dressed as follows:
-

Men, winter: Black/Dark blue blazer and black/dark blue trousers with a white shirt.
Men, summer: Black/Dark blue trousers with a white shirt.
Women, winter: Dark blue blazer and black/dark blue skirt or trousers and a white blouse or shirt.
Women, summer: Black/Dark blue skirt or trousers and a white blouse or shirt.

The referees of tournaments WRPF must have the appropriate distinctive signs, chevrons. Only black
shoes, boots, or tennis shoes (no sandals or open toed shoes) are allowed. All apparel items will be neat
and clean at all times.
7.1.19. Examples of faults that should be considered a minor oversight are:
-

Socks overlaid or touching the knee wraps.
Thumb loops not being removed prior to the lift.
The leg length of the singlet exceeding proper requirements.
Deadlift socks not completely covering the top of the calves.

7.1.20. Examples of infractions that must be corrected prior to the lifter making their attempt are:
-

The lifters suit/singlet straps not being worn over their shoulders.
Items forgotten to be removed that may have been worn for warm-ups or to maintain warmth (e.g.
hats, rubber elbow sleeves, etc.)
Raw lifters not wearing a t-shirt while squatting or benching.
No socks, or ankle socks, being worn during the deadlift.

7.1.21. Examples that should be considered a purposeful attempt to cheat are:
-

The use of more than one lifting suit or any suit that has been altered beyond the specs within the
rulebook.
Wearing more than one pair of underwear or illegal support briefs.
The use of more than one shirt or an illegal supportive shirt or illegal undershirt.
The use of more than one pair of wraps, more than one ply (wraps sewn together) or wraps over
regulation length.
Any additions such as body wraps, towel inserts, bracing, etc. Presence of oil, grease, liquids, or
lubricants other than chalk or approved powder.

7.1.22. The referees of WRPF tournaments whose activities will be deemed unsatisfactory must be
suspended from the performance of judicial functions until the moment of recertification.
7.1.23. The conditions for the removal of referees are:
-

Improper adherence to the conditions of refereeing, specified in these rules.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 34

-

Biased judging, actions in favor of one or more athletes to the detriment of the rest of the
tournament participants.
The performance in WRPF competitions of action or actions discrediting their reputation in
relation to any states, nations, races, individuals or legal entities.

7.2. Qualifications of referees.
7.2.1. Referee of regional category.
-

-

-

Must be a member of the sports federation “WRPF / World Raw Powerlifting Federation”.
Must be recommended by his regional representative and approved by the President of the sports
federation “WRPF / World Raw Powerlifting Federation”.
He should be at least 18 years old and must have a minimum of 01 year experience as an athlete
competing in powerlifting and single lifts.
Must pass a written test on the form adopted in the sports federation “WRPF / World Raw
Powerlifting Federation” and a practical test under the supervision of the chairman of the referees
committee (or candidate for his position) at the time of full competition, sanctioned sports
federation “WRPF / World Raw Powerlifting Federation”.
He must pass the test on the 90% and higher.
Must pass a practical test within 30 days after delivery of a written test.
Should officiate as a referee for at least at the 2 competitions, status is not below those which are
assigned to the title of Master of Sport, throughout the year in sport federation “WRPF / World
Raw Powerlifting Federation” to maintain accreditation.
He must follow all the updates and changes in the rules of the sport federation “WRPF / World
Raw Powerlifting Federation”.
The referee, who is not running for 2 years, loses his title.

7.2.2. Referee of national category.
-

-

-

-

Must be a member of the sports federation “WRPF / World Raw Powerlifting Federation”. He
must be recommended by a regional representative, a referee of a national or international
category in the his region, and approved by the president of the sports federation “WRPF / World
Raw Powerlifting Federation”.
Must be a referee of regional category for at least 2 years.
During this period must be in referee for at least on 6 events, status is not below those which are
assigned to the title of Master of Sport, with an average experience of the five flight on a single
event.
Must pass a written test on the form adopted in the sports federation “WRPF / World Raw
Powerlifting Federation” under the supervision of the chairman of the referees committee.
He must pass the test on the 90% and higher.
Should officiate as a referee for at least at the 2 competitions, status is not below those which are
assigned to the title of Master of Sport, throughout the year in sport federation “WRPF / World
Raw Powerlifting Federation” to maintain accreditation.
He must follow all the updates and changes in the rules of the sport federation “WRPF / World
Raw Powerlifting Federation”.
The referee, who is not running for 2 years, loses its title.

7.2.3. Referee of international category.
-

Must be a member of the sports federation “WRPF / World Raw Powerlifting Federation”.
Must be recommended by the chairman committee of the referees «WRPF / World Federation of
powerlifting without equipment" and approved by the President of the sports federation “WRPF /
World Raw Powerlifting Federation” from among the judges of a national category.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 35

-

-

-

Must be a referee of national category for at least 3 years.
During this period must be in referee for at least on 9 events, with an average experience of the
five flight on a single event. During this period must be running a referee by at least on three
national and three international tournaments.
Must pass a written test on the form adopted in the sports federation “WRPF / World Raw
Powerlifting Federation” under the supervision of the chairman of the referees committee.
He must pass the test on the 90% and higher.
If not passed the test, the candidate must wait 6 months to retake the test.
Should officiate as a referee for at least at the 2 competitions, status is not below those which are
assigned to the title of Master of Sport, throughout the year in sport federation “WRPF / World
Raw Powerlifting Federation” to maintain accreditation.
He must follow up all the updates and changes in the rules of the sport federation “WRPF / World
Raw Powerlifting Federation”.
The referee, who is not running for 2 years, loses his title.

7.3. Jury
7.3.1. A jury will be appointed to preside over each lifting session. The jury must be present during the
international tournaments. In the absence of a jury at the tournament, these functions are
performed by the head referee of the competition.
7.3.2. The jury shall consist of three referees, the highest ranking shall be designated president of the
jury.
7.3.3. The function of the jury is to ensure that the technical rules are correctly applied.
7.3.4. During the competition the jury may, by a majority vote, replace any referee whose decisions in
their opinion, prove him to be incompetent. The concerned referee must have received a warning
prior to any action of dismissal. If a protest is made to the Jury against a referee, then the referee
may be informed of the protest. The Jury should not put unnecessary stress on platform referees.
7.3.5. The impartiality of referees cannot be doubted, but a mistake in refereeing can be committed in
good faith. In such a case, the referee shall be allowed to give his explanation for making the
decision, which is the subject of his receiving a warning.
7.3.6. If a serious mistake occurs in the refereeing which is contrary to the technical rules, the jury may
take appropriate action to correct the mistake. They may at their discretion, grant the lifter a
further attempt.
7.3.7. The jury shall not at any time overrule or change the decisions of the referees.
7.3.8. The members of the jury will be positioned to ensure an unimpeded view of the competition.
7.3.9. Before each competition, the President of the jury must be sure that the members of the jury have
a complete knowledge of their role and are warned about new rules which are described in the
most current edition of the WRPF rulebook.

WRPF Technical Rules

Page 36

